## Lesson 10. Op Amp (Operational Amplifier)

Higher category **:** [Circuit Theory] [Circuit Theory Table of Contents](https://jb243.github.io/pages/852)

---

**1.** Overview

**2.** Ideal Op Amp

**3.** Practical Op Amp

**4.** Parameters of Op Amp

---

**a.** [Floating Capacitor and Feedback Direction of Op Amp](https://jb243.github.io/pages/6)

---

## **1. Overview **

 ⑴ Definition **:** A component that amplifies the potential difference between two input terminals and outputs it in the form of voltage.

 ⑵ Structure of Op Amp Component

**Figure 1.** Structure of Op Amp Component

> ① The top part of the component is marked, making it distinguishable between top and bottom.

> ② output voltage = A × (non-inverting input voltage + (-1) × inverting input voltage)

>> ○ Also referred to as non-inverting input voltage: v2

>> ○ Also referred to as inverting input voltage: v1

> ③ Op Amp is supplied with energy from power sources (④, ⑤) **:** Requires two power terminals.

> ④ Offset null **:** Used to adjust the output error of the Op Amp (⑥, ⑦)

> ⑤ NC (no connection) **:** Unused area (⑧)

 ⑶ Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 1 **:** Capacitors and other omissions

**Figure 2.** Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 1 [Note:1]

 ⑷ Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 2 **:** Omitting offset null (⑥, ⑦)

**Figure 3.** Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 2 [Note:2]

 ⑸ Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 3 **:** Omitting (+), (-) power supplies (④, ⑤)

> ① Schematic

**Figure 4.** Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 3

> ② The simplified equivalent circuit of the Op Amp does not satisfy KCL (Kirchhoff's Current Law)

>> ○ Ground connections to the Op Amp are omitted

>> ○ Leakage current flows through the ground connections

>> ○ Formulation

**Figure 5.** Current Flow through Op Amp (including leakage current)

 ⑹ Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 4 **:** Assuming ib1, ib2, vos _=_ 0

**Figure 6.** Op Amp Equivalent Circuit Stage 4

<br>

<br>

## 2. **Ideal Op Amp**

 ⑴ Conditions

> ① **Condition 1:** Virtual ground **:** Input current is 0. Input resistance is infinite.

>> ○ To achieve this, a **virtual ground** must be connected to the input node.

>> ○ The simplified equivalent circuit of the Op Amp does not satisfy KCL **:** This is due to the omission of ground connections to the Op Amp.

>> ○ Leakage current flows through the ground connections.

> ② **Condition 2:** Virtual short **:** Voltages at the input nodes are the same.

> ③ **Condition 3:** _R_ _o_ ___=_ 0\. In other words, the output resistance is 0 and the voltage gain A0 is infinite.

>> ○ The voltage gain should always be infinite regardless of frequency.

 ⑵ _v_ _i_ ___\- v_ _o_ curve

> ① Graph **:** The magnitude of the output voltage cannot exceed the power supply voltage.

****

**Figure 7.** Graph of Real Op Amp

> ② Op Amp Amplification Range

> ③ | v+ | = | v- | applies in the solution examples below as well.

 ⑶ Feedback

> ① Definition **:** Feedback loop **:** Connection between output terminal and input terminal

> ② Purpose **:** The amplification range is quite narrow, so Op Amp is not often used without feedback loop.

>> ○ In other words, constructing an open-loop circuit makes it difficult to adjust the amplification ratio and saturation occurs easily.

>> ○ Constructing a feedback loop allows users to adjust the amplification ratio.

 ⑷ **Example 1:** Inverting Amplifier **:** Voltage gain is negative. AC signal is inverted in the output.

**Figure 8.** Inverting Amplifier

 ⑸ **Example 2:** Non-Inverting Amplifier **:** Node at virtual short point is interpreted as vin.

**Figure 9.** Non-Inverting Amplifier

 ⑹ **Example 3:** Summing Amplifier **:** Multiple inverting amplification circuits are interpreted using the principle of superposition.

**Figure 10.** Inverting Summing Amplifier

 ⑺ **Example 4:** Voltage Follower **:** Strategy to eliminate loading effect.

**Figure 11.** Voltage Follower

> ① When there is a loading effect **:** vb = 0.5 vin (O), va = 0.75 vin (X)

**Figure 12.** When there is a loading effect

> ② When there is no loading effect **:** Due to the virtual short of Op Amp, vc = va

**Figure 13.** When there is no loading effect

 ⑻ **Example 5:** Differential Amplifier

**Figure 14.** Differential Amplifier

> ① Circuit interpretation

>> ○ When Rb = kRa and Rd = kRc **:** vo = k (vb - va)

> ② Advantages of the difference amplifier

>> ○ Can eliminate the influence of common errors when measuring va and vb

>> ○ Application in sensors **:** Can read values proportional to the measured physical quantities

 ⑼ **Example 6:** Differentiating Amplifier

**Figure 15.** Differentiating Amplifier

> ① Circuit interpretation

> ② Features

>> ○ All signals have some degree of noise

>> ○ Due to noise, the output voltage value changes very irregularly

>> ○ The differentiator is not widely used in practice

 ⑽ **Example 7:** Integrating Amplifier

**Figure 15.** Integrating Amplifier

 ⑾ **Example 8:**

**Figure 16.** Example 1

> ① Circuit interpretation

>> ○ Applying KCL to the inverting input node

>> ○ Applying KCL to the non-inverting input node

>> ○ Applying characteristics of ideal Op Amp

>> ○ Conclusion

> ② The 50 kΩ resistor does not affect the circuit interpretation at all **:** The current created by the 50 kΩ resistor escapes as supply current

<br>

<br>

## **3. Practical Op Amp**

 ⑴ Real Inverting Op Amp **:** Considering Ri ≠ ∞, Ro ≠ 0 as practical Op Amp

**Figure 17.** Real Inverting Op Amp

(The arrows all indicate grounding)

> ① Represented as 1/R is denoted as G

> ② In the case of ideal Op Amp **:** A → ∞, Gi → 0, Go →

 ∞, when substituted, this matches the previous conclusion

> ③ Offset null

**Figure 20.** Offset Null

>> ○ Circuit interpretation

>> ○ vpractical - videal according to R1

>>> ○ In the case of R1 = 0 **:** Vos term appears, so vpractical - videal = (1 + R3 / R2)vos + R3 ib1

>>> ○ In the case of R1 ≪ 1, R1 ≠ 0 **:** vpractical - videal = R3 ib1 = R3 × (bias current)

>>> ○ In the case of R1 = (R2-1 + R3-1)-1 **:** vpractical - videal = R3 (ib1 - ib2) = R3 × (offset current)

>> ○ Offset

>>> ○ Deviation between control quantities in actual situation and control quantities in ideal situation

>>> ○ Generally, bias current is about 4 times offset current **:** R1 as a variable resistor reduces the error of the actual Op Amp, which is offset null

 ⑵ SR (Slew Rate) **:** A measure of the rate at which a signal is transmitted from the input terminal to the output terminal

**Figure 21.** Slew Rate

> ① Mathematical expression

> ② All input signals can be represented as the integral sum of a step function **:** An accurate output function can be found

 ⑷ Asymmetry of Op Amp

> ① Negative Feedback Op Amp **:** Feedback circuit connected to the inverting input node

>> ○ Feedback Circuit **:** Circuit connecting the output terminal and input terminal

**Figure 22.** Negative Feedback Op Amp

>> ○ Ideal Op Amp **:** vo = A (v2 - v1)

>> ○ Real Op Amp **:** vo = A (v2 - v1)

> ② Positive Feedback Op Amp **:** Feedback circuit connected to the non-inverting input node

>> ○ Feedback Circuit **:** Circuit connecting the output terminal and input terminal

**Figure 23.** Positive Feedback Op Amp

>> ○ Ideal Op Amp **:** vo = A (v2 - v1)

>> ○ Real Op Amp **:** vo = v+ or v- (Op Amp's supply voltage)

> ③ Reason **:** Related to [stray capacitor](https://jb243.github.io/pages/6)

<br>

<br>

## **4. Parameters of Op Amp**

**Table 1.** Parameters of Op Amp

<br>

---

_Input: 2016-01-09 21:30_
