## **Chapter 10-1: Positive/Negative Feedback Op Amp**

Recommended Article **:** 【Circuit Theory】 Chapter 5. [Capacitors, Inductors](https://jb243.github.io/pages/13). 【Circuit Theory】 Chapter 10. [Op Amp](https://jb243.github.io/pages/5)

---

<br>

## **1. Meaning of Floating Capacitor**

 ⑴ When two arbitrary metals are connected within a circuit, they perform a function similar to a [capacitor](https://jb243.github.io/pages/13).

 ⑵ Inside an Op Amp, there are countless transistors that create a virtual capacitor.

 ⑶ These are called stray capacitors: capacitors that seem to be floating, hence the name.

 ⑷ The capacitance of these stray capacitors is referred to as stray capacitance.

<br>

<br>

## **2. Feedback Direction of Op Amp**

 ⑴ Negative feedback ( **good** )

**Figure 1. Negative Feedback Op Amp**

 ⑵ Positive feedback ( **bad** )

**Figure 2. Positive Feedback Op Amp**

 ⑶ Issues with Positive Feedback Op Amp

**Figure 3. Issues with Positive Feedback Op Amp**

> ① Explanation of the above diagram

>> ○ Essentially represents the equivalent circuit of an Op Amp.

>> ○ A virtual capacitor with capacitance C is represented in blue.

>> ○ The output of the Op Amp is shown as a dependent voltage source.

> ② Negative feedback Op Amp: Corresponds to **case 1**

>> ○ Ideal Op Amp: vo = A(v2 \- v1)

>> ○ Real Op Amp: vo = A(v2 \- v1)

> ③ Positive feedback Op Amp: Corresponds to **case 2**

>> ○ Ideal Op Amp: vo = A(v2 \- v1)

>> ○ Real Op Amp: vo = v+ or v- (Op Amp's supply voltage)

<br>

<br>

## **3. Understanding through Thevenin Equivalent Circuit**

 ⑴ Existence of Thevenin Equivalent Circuit

**Figure 4. Existence of Thevenin Equivalent Circuit**

> ① Assumption: Ri = ∞, Ro = 0, A ＜ ∞

> ② Formulation: Apply KCL (Kirchhoff's Current Law) to the super node marked in blue.

 ⑵ Interpretation of Thevenin Equivalent Circuit

**Figure 5. Interpretation of Thevenin Equivalent Circuit**

> ① Formulation

> ② Negative feedback Op Amp: [Circuit Design](https://jb243.github.io/pages/5) where A ＞ 0

>> ○ For **all** A, vth and Rth are positive.

>> ○ Q converges to a constant value (stable).

> ③ Positive feedback Op Amp: [Circuit Design](https://jb243.github.io/pages/5) where A ＜ 0

>> ○ For **some** A, vth and Rth are negative.

>> ○ Q diverges: Output voltage reaches the maximum voltage, the supply voltage, that the Op Amp can reach.

> ④ Conclusion: Unlike the ideal Op Amp, the real Op Amp introduces a virtual capacitor, leading to different results based on the feedback direction.

---

_Input **:** 2016.01.12 00:40_

_Modified **:** 2020.09.13 23:54_
