##  **Chapter 4-8. Alcohol Breakdown and Hangovers**

Recommended Posting: 【Biology】 Chapter 4. [Cells and Energy Metabolism](https://jb243.github.io/pages/70)

---

**1. Step 1**: [Ethanol → Acetaldehyde](#1-step-1-ethanol--acetaldehyde)

**2. Step 2**: [Acetaldehyde → Acetate](#2-step-2-acetaldehyde--acetate)

**3. Step 3**: [Hangover Relief](#3-step-3-hangover--relief)

---

<br>

## 1. **Step 1**: Ethanol → Acetaldehyde

⑴ **1-1.** ADH-mediated reaction

> ① ADH: Alcohol dehydrogenase

> ② Ethanol is converted to acetaldehyde by ADH in the liver, simultaneously reducing NAD<sup>+</sup> to NADH.

> ③ All people have no difficulty performing this reaction.

⑵ **1-2.** MEOS-mediated reaction

> ① MEOS: Microsomal ethanol oxidizing system.

> ② Ethanol is converted to acetaldehyde by MEOS in the liver, simultaneously converting NADPH to NADP + O<sub>2</sub>.

> ③ When a large amount of alcohol enters the body, the liver secretes protective enzymes for the microsomal ethanol oxidizing system (MEOS).

>> ○ This induces a reaction that increases the number of smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) in liver cells, thereby breaking down ethanol more quickly.

>> ○ Practically, it is possible to increase alcohol tolerance.

>> ○ This explanation provides evidence that alcohol tolerance is acquired rather than innate.

<br>

<Br>

## 2. **Step 2**: Acetaldehyde → Acetate

⑴ ALDH-mediated reaction

> ① ALDH: Aldehyde dehydrogenase

> ② Acetaldehyde is converted to acetate by ALDH in the liver.

> ③ Some people have mutations in the genes involved in performing this reaction.

>> ○ Such mutations are mainly observed in Asians.

>> ○ Incomplete dominance: If homozygous, this reaction hardly proceeds, but if heterozygous, this reaction proceeds to some extent.

>> ○ Because acetaldehyde is highly toxic, it causes liver damage, including hangovers.

>> ○ If ALDH is low, hangovers are so severe that there is an aversion to alcohol: as a result, there will be fewer cases of alcoholism.

>> ○ This explanation provides evidence that alcohol tolerance is somewhat genetic.

<br>

<br>

## 3. **Step 3:** Hangover Relief

⑴ Hangover relief from bean sprouts: Asparagine, abundantly present in bean sprouts, can chelate acetaldehyde.

<br>

---

_Input: 2019.01.14 16:34_

_Modified: 2021.04.27 17:56_
