## **Chapter 4-3. Glucose Synthesis**

Higher category: 【Biology】 Chapter 4. [Cell and Energy Metabolism](https://jb243.github.io/pages/70)

---

**1.** [Gluconeogenesis](#1-gluconeogenesis)

**2.** [Cori cycle](#2-cori-cycle)

**3.** [Glyoxylate acid cycle](#3-glyoxylate-acid-cycle)

---

**a.** [Glycolysis](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1410)

---

<br>

## **1\. Gluconeogenesis**

⑴ Overview

> ① Gluconeogenesis: Reverse Process of Glycolysis.

> ② Animal Cells: Occurs in the liver.

> ③ Hormonal Regulation

>> ○ Glucagon, Glucocorticoid: Promote gluconeogenesis.

>> ○ Insulin: Inhibits gluconeogenesis.

> ④ Leucine, Lysine: These two amino acids cannot undergo gluconeogenesis from amino acids.

> ⑤ Drinking alcohol without eating inhibits gluconeogenesis, leading to an increase in ketone bodies.

⑵ Conversion of Pyruvate to OAA (Oxaloacetic Acid)

> ① Enzyme: Pyruvate Carboxylase, located inside the mitochondria.

> ② Negative Feedback: Acetyl-CoA promotes pyruvate carboxylase → increases gluconeogenesis, decreases glycolysis → decreases acetyl-CoA

⑶ Conversion of OAA to PEP

> ① Enzyme: PEP Carboxykinase, located in the cytoplasm.

> ② Uses 1 GTP per OAA molecule.

>> ○ Glycolysis: -2 ATP, +4 ATP

>> ○ To produce one molecule of glucose: 2 GTP (OAA → PEP) + 4 ATP, a total of 6 NTPs are used.

⑷ Conversion of Fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to Fructose 6-phosphate

> ① Enzyme: Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), located in the cytoplasm.

>> ○ Enzyme for the reverse reaction: PFK-1, located in the cytoplasm.

> ② Allosteric regulation of the enzyme: Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate is inhibited, glucagon is promoted, and insulin is inhibited.

⑸ Conversion of Glucose 6-phosphate to Glucose

> ① Enzyme: Glucose-6-phosphatase, located in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum.

>> ○ Enzyme for the reverse reaction: Hexokinase, located in the cytoplasm.

⑹ Conversion of Glucose 6-phosphate to Glucose 1-phosphate

> ① Enzyme for the reverse reaction: Phosphoglucomutase converts G-1-P to G-6-P.

⑺ Glucose 1-phosphate

> ① Added to the 4th or 6th carbon of the glycogen chain through a dehydration reaction.

> ② Enzyme for the reverse reaction: Glycogen Phosphorylase breaks down glycogen to G-1-P.

> ③ Insulin: Promotes dephosphorylation.

> ④ Glucagon: Promotes phosphorylation.

⑻ Action of Insulin

> ① 1<sup>st</sup>. When blood glucose levels are high, insulin binds to IR (insulin receptor).

> ② 2<sup>nd</sup>. This complex activates protein kinase through IRS-Pi and phosphorylates and inactivates glycogen synthase kinase.

> ③ 3<sup>rd</sup>. PP1 (protein phosphatase 1) dephosphorylates and activates glycogen synthase.

> ④ 4<sup>th</sup>. As a result, glycogen synthesis increases, lowering blood glucose levels.

<br>

<br>

## **2\. Cori cycle**

⑴ Overview

> ① Gluconeogenesis from lactic acid, which takes place in liver.

> ② There is no gluconeogenesis from alcohol.

⑵ Process: 4 ATP are consumed per cycle.

> ① The liver sends glucose to skeletal muscle.

> ② Skeletal muscle produces lactic acid.

>> ○ Occurs frequently in red blood cells and type 2 muscles.

>> ○ Does not occur in the heart or kidneys.

>> ○ 2 ATP are produced.

> ③ Generated lactic acid is sent back to the liver.

> ④ Liver synthesize glucose.

>> ○ 6 ATP are consumed.

>> ○ Why it starts in the mitochondria

>>> ○ The enzyme that catalyzes pyruvate → oxaloacetate (OAA) is located in the mitochondrial matrix.

>>> ○ OAA cannot cross the mitochondrial membrane, so it is transported to the cytosol via a mitochondria shuttle.

⑶ When actively exercising,

> ① Skeletal muscle

>> ○ During running, glycolysis is active, and NADH → NAD<sup>+</sup> (i.e., lactic acid fermentation) is a slow reaction, so NAD<sup>+</sup>/NADH levels decrease.

>> ○ After exercise, NAD<sup>+</sup> and NADH concentrations return to normal, meaning NAD<sup>+</sup>/NADH levels increase.

> ② Liver: In liver, glycolysis normally takes place so that NAD<sup>+</sup>/NADH gets high.

<br>

<br>

## **3\. [Glyoxylate acid cycle](https://github.com/JB243/jb243.github.io/edit/main/_posts/complete/1420-01-01-1420.md)**

⑴ Definition: Glucose synthesis pathway of plants.

⑵ Place: Occurs through lipid body, glyoxisome, and mitochondria. 

<br>

---

_Input: 2019.01.16 17:47_
