## **Chapter 4-6. Decomposition of Lipid**

Higher category **:** 【Biology】 Chapter 4. [Cell and Energy Metabolism](https://jb243.github.io/pages/70) 

---

<br>

## **0\. Overview**

> Lipids are used as energy when there is no carbohydrate.

<br>

<br>

## **1. 1<sup>st</sup>. Beta oxidation (β oxidation)**

⑴ Places

> ① Animal cell **:** 1/3 in peroxisome, 2/3 in mitochondria.

> ② Plant cell **:** 100 % in peroxisome.

⑵ Reaction

> ① During response, 1 FADH2 is generated at first, and then 1 NADH is generated.

> ② After 1 beta oxidation, 1 acetyl-CoA(2C) is generated with ①.

> ③ Fat with 2n carbon can produce n-1 acetyl-CoA and 1 glycerol through n-1 beta oxidation.

⑶ Palmitic acid(C16), a saturated fatty acid, becomes to palmitoyl-CoA, and then produces 8 molecules of acetyl-CoA through beta oxidation.

<br>

<br>

## **2\. 2<sup>nd</sup>. Glycolysis and TCA cycle**

⑴ Glycerol **:** Switches to G3P and participate in the glycolysis immediately.

⑵ Acetyl-CoA **:** Fatty acid in the liver cannot participate in gluconeogenesis and TCA cycle.

> ① If the fatty acid breaks down, it indicates he or she is in starvation.

> ② Oxaloacetic acid in the body is already used for gluconeogenesis for the brain.

> ③ Since the amount of acetyl coA is large and is not actively used in the TCA cycle, ketone bodies appear.

>> ○ Ketone body **:** Acetoacetic acid, D-β-hydroxybutyric acid, acetone

>> ○ Ketone body is used as an energy source for the heart, kidney, muscle, and brain.

> ④ In other organs except for liver, acetyl-CoA can be used in the TCA cycle.

<br>

<br>

## **3\. 3<sup>rd</sup>. Acyl-carnitine cycle** 

⑴ Decomposition of fats → Gluconeogenesis

<br>

<br>

## **4\. 4<sup>th</sup>. Glyoxysome cycle**

⑴ Glyoxysome **:** Exists in plants only.

⑵ Glyoxysome cycle **:** Converts fatty acids into glucoses.

> ① Glyoxysome doesn't contain succinic acid dehydrogenase.

> ② **Reaction 1.** Acetyl-CoA + OAA → Citric acid

> ③ **Reaction 2.** Citric acid → Succinic acid + glyoxylic acid

> ④ **Reaction 3.** Glyoxylic acid + acetyl-CoA → Malic acid

> ⑤ **Reaction 4.** Malic acid → OAA

> ⑥ Succinic acid moves to mitochondria and reacts to malic acid through TCA cycle.

> ⑦ Malic acid is related to gluconeogenesis.

> ⑧ Lipids stored in seeds are an energy source until young plants photosynthesize.

> ⑨ Animal cells are unable to synthesize glucose from fatty acid. 

---

<br>

*Input **:** 2019.01.16 17:29*
