## **Chapter 9-1. Nucleic Acid (DNA, RNA) Extraction and Purification Experiment**

Recommended Articles: 【Biology】 Chapter 9. [DNA Technology](https://jb243.github.io/pages/77), 【Biology】 Chapter 37.
[Biology Experiment](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1481)

----

**1.** [Human DNA Extraction Experiment](#1-human-dna-extraction-experiment)

**2.** [Animal Cell DNA Extraction Experiment](#2-animal-cell-dna-extraction-experiment)

**3.** [Plant Cell DNA Extraction Experiment](#3-plant-cell-dna-extraction-experiment)

**4.** [Plasmid DNA Isolation from Bacteria Experiment](#4-plasmid-dna-isolation-from-bacteria-experiment)

**5.** [RNA Extraction Experiment](#5-rna-extraction-experiment)

---

<br>

## **1\. Human DNA Extraction Experiment**

⑴ Prepare the sample for DNA extraction.

> ① Usually, blood, hair, or skin cells from the inside of the mouth are used.

⑵ Break the cell membrane and nuclear membrane to release DNA from the nucleus.

⑶ Use enzymes to prevent DNA degradation.

⑷ Prepare 15 μl of protease, place it in a microtube, and add 500 μl of the sample.

⑸ Incubate at 56°C to allow protein degradation, then add 500 μl of protein removal solution (P.C.I) and mix well.

⑹ Centrifuge at 13,000 rpm for 3 minutes and transfer only the supernatant to a new tube.

⑺ Add 1 ml of 100% ethanol to the tube and place it on ice to precipitate DNA.

⑻ Centrifuge at 13,000 rpm for 5 minutes and carefully discard only the supernatant.

⑼ Add distilled water to dissolve the DNA and transfer the DNA solution to an agarose gel.

⑽ Load the DNA mixture into the agarose gel and apply an electric field from the negative electrode (cathode) to the positive electrode (anode).

⑾ After a certain period, check the electrophoresis results, which are separated based on molecular weight, using a UV detection or fluorescence detection.

<br>

<br>

## **2\. Animal Cell DNA Extraction Experiment**

⑴ Wash cells with PBS solution.

> ① The process of removing animal cell culture media or other buffer solutions.

⑵ Suspend cells in STE solution.

> ① A buffer solution used in future experimental procedures.

⑶ Add 20% SDS solution.

> ① Dissolves the cell membrane.

⑷ Add proteinase K and incubate for 4 hours.

> ① Breaks down intracellular proteins.

⑸ Centrifuge.

> ① The supernatant is used in the next step.

⑹ Add phenol and mix.

> ① A process to dissolve proteins within cells.

⑺ Centrifuge.

> ① After centrifugation, three layers are visible: phenol layer at the bottom, protein layer in the middle, and the supernatant at the top.

> ② DNA is in the supernatant.

⑻ Add cold 95% ethanol and sodium acetate, then mix.

> ① This creates conditions for DNA precipitation.

> ② Adding these substances to a DNA-containing solution causes DNA to clump like a thread.

⑼ Centrifuge.

> ① DNA precipitates.

 ⑽ Add and mix 70% ethanol with the precipitate.

> ① A step to wash the DNA.

⑾ Centrifuge.

⑿ Dissolve the precipitate in an appropriate volume of buffer solution.

<br>

<br>

## **3\. Plant Cell DNA Extraction Experiment**

<br>

<br>

## **4\. Plasmid DNA Isolation from Bacteria Experiment**

⑴ Harvest bacteria.

⑵ Suspend in a solution containing 50 mM glucose, 10 mM EDTA, and 25 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0).

⑶ Add 0.2 N NaOH and 1.0% SDS solution, then mix.

⑷ Add 3 M potassium acetate solution (pH 4.8), then mix.

⑸ Centrifuge.

⑹ Add isopropanol, then mix.

⑺ Centrifuge.

⑻ Wash the precipitate with 70% ethanol.

⑼ Dissolve the precipitate in an appropriate volume of buffer solution.

<br>

<br>

## **5\. RNA Extraction Experiment**

⑴ Background Knowledge

> ① RNA is more susceptible to hydrolysis compared to DNA.

> ② There is an enzyme called RNAase in the body that destroys RNA.

⑵ 1<sup>st</sup>. Protecting RNA from RNA degradation.

> ① Use DEPC (diethylpyrocarbonate), an RNase (ribonuclease) inhibitor.

> ② DEPC is also used as a chemical modification reagent for proteins, ethoxyformylating amino groups and imidazole groups in proteins.

⑶ 2<sup>nd</sup>. Removing proteins.

> ① **Method 1.** Treat with phenol/chloroform: Denatures proteins and RNAase.

> ② **Method 2.** Use ultracentrifugation, etc.

 ⑷ 3<sup>rd</sup>. Selectively isolating RNA.

> ① **Method 1.** [Salting-out](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1339)

> ② **Method 2.** Multiple rounds of centrifugation or ultracentrifugation.

<br>

---

_Input: 2019.03.06 20:13_

_Edited: 2020.02.08 12:54_
