## **Linux Major Troubleshooting [01-20]**

Recommended Post **:** 【Operating System】 **Lecture 1.** [Linux](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2147)

----

<br>

## **1\. cannot execute binary file: Exec format error**

 ⑴ **Cause 1.** When the OS's 64-bit / 32-bit architecture doesn't match the file's architecture

> ① **Solution:** Reinstall the OS according to the correct version

 ⑵ **Cause 2.** When the OS is arm-based

> ① Except for M1, most arm-based systems are used in smartphones

> ② Most publicly available programs are eventually based on amd architecture

> ③ **Solution:** It's recommended to operate an amd-based OS on a regular PC

<br>

<br>

## **2\. command not found**

⑴ **Cause 1.** When the location of the file is not included in the environment settings

> ① **Solution 1:** Use the absolute path of the file

> ② **Solution 2:** Use the export command

<br>

<br>

## **3\. permission denied**

⑴ **Cause 1.** Due to chmod settings

> ① Abbreviation for change mode, used for permission management

> ② Types of users: user (u), group (g), others (o)

> ③ Types of permissions: read (r; 4), write (w; 2), execute (e; 1), rw- (4+2=6), r-x (4+1=5), rwx (4+2+1=7)

> ④ **Method 1:** Symbolic mode

>> ○ **Example 1:** chmod u+x filename: Grant execute permission to the user

>> ○ **Example 2:** chmod g-w filename: Remove write permission from the group

>> ○ **Example 3:** chmod o=r filename: Set others' permission to read-only

> ⑤ **Method 2:** Numeric mode

>> ○ **Example 1:** chmod 755 filename: Set permissions to 7 for user, 5 for group, and 5 for others

> ⑥ **Application 1:** Setting permissions for an entire directory

>> ○ **Example 1:** chmod -R 755 directory_name: Set 755 permissions for the entire directory_name

 ⑵ **Cause 2.** When the location of the file is not included in the environment settings

> ① **Solution 1:** Use the absolute path of the file

> ② **Solution 2:** Use the export command

<br>

<br>

## **4\. packet_write_wait: Connection to 210.114.89.173 port 12604: Broken pipe**

 ⑴ **Cause 1.** When the server closes the socket due to inactivity, causing an error as the client cannot connect

> ① Resolved by setting ServerAliveInterval

 ⑵ **Cause 2.** When the server detects a disconnection due to a brief interruption or reboot, causing an error

> ① Resolved by preventing the server from sending KeepAlive messages

⑶ Procedure

⑷ [Reference](https://may0301.tistory.com/10)

<br>

<br>

## **5\. ERROR: There were no reads to process. Please check whether the read lengths in the input fastqs satisfy the minimum read length requirements for the chemistry.**

⑴ Problem Situation: This problem can be encountered when running Space Ranger.

⑵ **Cause 1.** Typo: When there is an error in the fastq file name

⑶ **Cause 2.** When the expected R1 length is shorter than anticipated

⑷ [10x Genomics Reference](https://kb.10xgenomics.com/hc/en-us/articles/5568819041805-ERROR-There-were-no-reads-to-process-)

<br>

<br>

## **6\. [Directory] has only 43264kB remaining space available. To ignore this error, set MRO_DISK_SPACE_CHECK=disable in your environment.**

⑴ Problem Situation: This occurred while running Linux/CPU-based pipelines such as Space Ranger.

⑵ Short-term Solution: export MRO_DISK_SPACE_CHECK=disable

⑶ Long-term Solution: Secure additional disk space

<br>

<br>

## **7. Log message: The input data has a very low rate of barcodes (0.0%) that match the selected slide type. Please check that your input data and slide serial number or chosen slide version are correct. Input: Sample NYU_GIST1 in "/data/jeongbinpark/231019_microbiota/GIST/Fastq"**

⑴ **Issue:** When using Space Ranger, an error occurs in less than 10 seconds.

⑵ **Solution:** The Fastq files `SRR20708363_1.fastq.gz` and `SRR20708363_2.fastq.gz` need to be renamed to the format `[sample_name]_S1_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz` or `..._R2_001.fastq.gz` (the sample name can be chosen arbitrarily). If `SRR20708363_1.fastq.gz` is named R1 and `SRR20708363_2.fastq.gz` is named R2, the above error occurs. However, if `SRR20708363_1.fastq.gz` is named R2 and `SRR20708363_2.fastq.gz` is named R1, it works properly.

⑶ Recommendation: As long as the slide serial number starts with V1, V4, V5, or H1, Space Ranger generally works well.

<br>

---

_Input **:** 2023.10.19 23:29_

_Modified **:** 2024.02.21 15:08_
