## **Cell Type Classification Pipeline**

Recommended Post **:** 【Bioinformatics】 [Table of Contents for Bioinformatics Analysis](https://jb243.github.io/pages/836)

---

**1.** [Matrix and Sparse Matrix](#1-matrix-and-sparse-matrix)

**2.** [Dimension Reduction with PCA](#2-dimension-reduction-with-pca)

**3.** [Clustering](#3-clustering)

**4.** [Exploring DEGs (Differential Expression Genes)](#4-exploring-degs-differential-expression-genes)

**5.** [Package Introduction](#5-package-introduction)

---

**a.** [Determining Cell Types with Seurat](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1788)

**b.** [Determining Cell Types with scater](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1799)

**c.** [Determining Cell Types with scanpy](https://support.parsebiosciences.com/hc/en-us/articles/360052794312-Scanpy-Tutorial-65k-PBMCs)

---

<br>

## **1. Matrix and Sparse Matrix**

⑴ A sparse matrix is a matrix that represents the values and positions of non-zero data.

⑵ Since the amount of data in bioinformatics is large, a sparse matrix is used.

<br>

<br>

## **2. Dimension Reduction with PCA**

⑴ PCA cannot be directly applied to large datasets, so optimization is necessary.

⑵ **Optimization Strategy 1:** Use a subset of genes with the highest variability out of around 30,000 genes.

⑶ **Optimization Strategy 2:** Set the number of genes to explain over 95% of input variance.

<br>

<br>

## **3. Clustering**

⑴ Clustering is performed with 10 principal components obtained after PCA.

⑵ Clustering algorithms like t-SNE are used.

<br>

<br>

## **4. Exploring DEGs (Differential Expression Genes)**

⑴ DEG **:** Genes that are expressed more in one cluster compared to other clusters.

⑵ Methods like t-test analysis or GLM are used.

⑶ Find the biological meaning of genes representing each cluster and assign cell types to each cluster (**cannot be automated**).

⑷ Representative genes with biological significance are called marker genes.

<br>

<br>

## **5. Package Introduction**

⑴ In R, packages like Seurat and Scater implement the above pipeline.

⑵ In Python, Scanpy implements the above pipeline.

<br>

---

_Input**:** 2019.11.22 13:49_
