## Message

Recommended Post **:** 【Biology】 [Biology Index](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1457) 

---

<br>

## ♠︎ Message to Share ♠︎

<p><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/mN7x4NS-gLc" width="852" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe></p>

<br>

I started collecting biological knowledge for the first time in 2009. I began gathering interesting biological knowledge that I acquired while reading books because I didn't want to lose it.  

<br>
  
As I continued, I encountered similar information from different sources. Some information was incorrect, while others were exactly the same. There were also cases where one piece of information was a subset of another. The more I organized the pile of knowledge, the more I encountered these situations, and if the categories were poorly organized, information from different sources would cause trouble. That's when I realized the importance of categories. I kept refining and improving the categories, and they gradually converged into their current form. Now, even with a flood of new information, the categories are securely maintained.  

<br>
  
I believe that these mature categories are related to the collective human intellectual process of dealing with biology. Currently, we understand biology in the order of molecules → cells → tissues → organs → populations → communities → ecosystems → evolution, and we accept the emergence of phenomena that were not predicted in the previous stage when transitioning to the next stage as a principle. In addition, I think that the categories set at each stage are a universally valid sequence necessary for us to understand the concept.  

<br>
  
I think that what we call knowledge and truth is like a bundle of thread, and if you follow just one thread, you can reach the abyss. I hope that the biological categories I have created from fragmentary biological knowledge gathered from various sources have reached the abyss of the collective human intellect.

<br>

**[Additional Information]**

<br>

The book cover depicts a space-faring caterpillar. I found caterpillars to be the most interesting microorganisms for several reasons: **1)** They can survive even during dehydration using trehalose, **2)** They can survive in outer space without their bodies inflating, and **3)** They are one of the very few microorganisms that have already reached outer space along with humanity's moon landing.

<br>

---

<br> 

## ♠︎ Author Introduction ♠︎

<br>

Author 'Park Jungbin' has completed both his bachelor's and master's degrees at Seoul National University and is currently employed at a startup. He has been selected as a prospective scholarship student by the Higher Education Foundation and is preparing to study abroad.

<br>

---

*Input **:** September 12, 2022, 23:17*
