## **Lecture 15. International Trade Theory**

Recommended post **:** 【Microeconomics】 [Microeconomics Table of Contents](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1880)

**1.** Gains from trade

**2.** Other theories of international trade

**3.** Protectionism

**1\. Gains from trade**

 ⑴ Comparative advantage and gains from trade

 ⑵ Sources of comparative advantage

...


> ① Differences in climate
>
> ② Differences in factor endowments
>
> ③ Differences in factors of production
>
>> ○ Heckscher–Ohlin model **:** A country with an abundant supply of a production factor has a comparative advantage in producing goods that use that factor intensively.
>
> ④ Differences in technology

 ⑶ Complete specialization

> ① In reality, because there are many factors of production and economic structures differ, incomplete specialization occurs.

 ⑷ Effects of free trade

> ① Autarky
>
> ② When the domestic price is higher than the world price **:** Imports. Consumer surplus increases. Producer surplus decreases. Total surplus increases.
>
> ③ When the domestic price is lower than the world price **:** Exports. Consumer surplus decreases. Producer surplus increases. Total surplus increases.

 ⑸ Additional gains from trade

> ① Economies of scale **:** Average cost decreases as production scale increases. Gains from division of labor.
>
> ② Learning effects **:** Production costs decrease as production experience accumulates.

**2\. Other theories of international trade**

 ⑴ Product life-cycle theory (product life-cycle theory) **:** Proposed by R. Vernon

> ① Which country will produce a good is determined by which stage it is in, from the development stage to the mass-production stage.
>
> ② Early development **:** Handled by advanced countries.
>
> ② Mass production **:** Handled by developing countries.
>
> ③ Limitation **:** May be applicable only to manufactured goods.

 ⑵ Intra-industry trade theory (intra-industry trade theory) **:** Proposed by P. Krugman

> ① Intra-industry trade **:** Trade conducted in the form of buying and selling the same type of goods to each other.
>
> ② Why intra-industry trade is possible
>
>> ○ Because of product differentiation, exports and imports occur simultaneously within the same industry.
>>
>> ○ Even if there is no trade based on comparative advantage, intra-industry trade based on economies of scale is possible.
>
> ③ If intra-industry trade occurs, countries with similar conditions have similar economic structures, so a lot of trade occurs between them.
>
> ④ Can explain: trade among advanced countries ＞ trade between advanced and developing countries ＞ trade among developing countries.

 ⑶ Supply-chain trade theory

> ① As supply chains expand, specific countries begin to take responsibility for each part of the supply chain.
>
> ② For example, accounting may be handled in a tax-free nation.

****

**3\. Protectionism**

 ⑴ Instruments of protectionism

> ① Tariffs **:** In practice, if tariffs exceed 56%, exports cannot go through.
>
>> ○ In a perfectly competitive market
>
> **Figure. 1.** Effect of imposing a tariff in a perfectly competitive market]
>
>> ○ In an imperfectly competitive market
>
> **Figure. 2.** Effect of imposing a tariff in an imperfectly competitive market]
>
>> ○ Antidumping duties
>>
>> ○ Countervailing duties
>
> ② Import quota (import quota)
>
> ③ Voluntary export restriction (voluntary export restriction)
>
> ④ Non-tariff barriers (non-tariff barriers)

 ⑵ Arguments for protectionism

> ① Preventing unemployment
>
>> ○ Critique **:** A trading partner may benefit from another country’s protectionism.
>
> ② Benefits of production diversification
>
> ③ National defense reasons
>
> ④ Need measures corresponding to unfair foreign policies
>
> ⑤ Issues of environmental and resource conservation
>
>> ○ Developing-country firms argue that because environmental regulations are relatively lax, they have price competitiveness.
>>
>> ○ It is argued that free trade depletes developing countries’ resources and pollutes the environment.
>>
>> ○ Critique **:** It may be “kicking away the ladder” by advanced countries.
>
> ⑥ Infant-industry protection argument
>
>> ○ **Critique 1.** It is difficult for the government to predict the most promising technologies.
>>
>> ○ **Critique 2.** If protected from competition, it is difficult to become competitive.
>>
>> ○ In many cases, infant industries are chosen based on political logic.
>
> ⑦ Sweatshop labor fallacy (sweatshop labor fallacy)
>
>> ○ The argument that countries with weak exports end up receiving low wages that make it hard to maintain a livelihood due to free trade.
>>
>> ○ However, it overlooks that they are, in fact, benefiting from trade.

 ⑶ Efforts toward free trade

> ① International trade agreements
>
>> ○ North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
>>
>> ○ European Union (EU)
>
> ② International trade organizations
>
>> ○ General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
>>
>> ○ World Trade Organization (WTO)
>
> ③ Free trade area (free trade area)
>
> ④ Customs union (customs union)
>
> ⑤ Common market (common market)
>
> ⑥ Regionalism (regionalism)

Posted: 2020.11.30 01:42
