## Tips for Easily Memorizing English Words 

Recommended Posts: 【English】 [English Word Index](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1686), 【English】 [Common Etymology Word Pairs](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2075)

---

<br>

## A

Abashful: Feeling like you want to hide in the bushes

Aberrant: Think of "abet" (incite)

Abbey: Think of "obey"

Accoutrements: Think of "coat"

Addle: Think of "kids"

Adulterate: The behavior of adults is not pure

Adroit: Think of "Android"

Adulate: Feels like saying "adios" (goodbye)

Affable: Feels like you can easily show your face

Afoul: Think of "fold"

Aliment: Think of "alive"

Amulet: Think of "omelet"

Ancillary: Think of "cilia"

A noint (anoint with oil): Think of "An Oil"

Anthology: Feels like Antonio is the protagonist

Appease **:** Think of 'peace'

Argot: Feels like you both know and don't know something

Arraign: Think of "arrange"

Assertive: Think of 'What's on TV'

A sylum: Think of "salon"

<br>

<br>

## B

Bacchanal: Think of "Bacchus"

Badinage: When you're really close, you say bad things

Baffle: Feels like someone suddenly challenges you to a battle

Buffoon: Think of 'baboon' and 'baloon'.

Bagatelle: Think of a bag

Bail: Think of "bill"

Bale: Think of "veil"

Balkanize: Think of the Balkan Peninsula

Balk at: Feels like you're parked and stopped, similar to "parking"

Banish: Think of "ban"

Banter: Teasing with cheap jokes involving "panties"

Barley: Similar pronunciation

Bastion: Think of a basket

Bauble: Think of "bubble"

Bedizen: Think of "bed"

Beseach: Feels like seeking a solution urgently (seek)

Bilk: Feels like spending a lot of money on things like milk injections

Blatant: Feels like asking, "Do you want to see this turn?"

Bludgeon: Resembling a blue bruise, i.e., reminiscent of a blue zone.

Boggle: To memorize as if hesitating when seeing unfamiliar droplets.

Bolster: Think of it as "when you get more."

Boor **:** Think of 'bull'.

Boorish: Think of 'bull'.

Botchy: A boy's clumsiness compared to a girl's.

Brisk: Think of the image of bricks.

Broach **:** Think of 'brooch'

Bromide: Feels as bland and yellowed as bromide compounds.

Brouhaha **:** Can think of 'haha' in relation to the meaning of the 'Brouhaha'.

Brusque **:** Think of the pronunciation of it.

Buccaneer: Reminiscent of [bacchanal](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2080).

Bulwark: Think of bulk (a large quantity) and work together.

Burlesque: Gives a feeling of mocking by likening something to "bugs."

Butcher: Think of the image of a slaughterhouse.

Butt: Reminiscent of a bull's charge.

Buttress: Think of it as "it held up."

<br>

<br>

## C

Cadaver: Originally, the Amazon company was named [cadabra](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zN1PyNwjHpc&t=2040s), but it sounded too similar to "cadaver."

Calumniate: Think of a sense of callousness.

Canard: Sounds like "can" (a can-like sound).

Cantankerous: Feels like saying "can't" constantly.

Careen: Similar to a career in running.

Castigate: Like throwing and closing a gate.

Chagrin: Reminiscent of shyness.

Chancellor: Think of the idea of a chance.

Charter: Resembles "chapter."

Chaste: Gives the feeling of following religious beliefs.

Cheeky: Feels cheeky while saying "cheeky-cheeky."

Cherub **:** Reminiscent of "cheer up."

Chicanery: Reminiscent of "cheat."

Chide: As if scolding a child.

Chortle **:** Think of 'choir'.

Chuckle: Resembles "chucky."

Clergy: Think of the idea of being clever.

Clirch: Think of it as "clutch" bending the end of a nail.

Clout: Resembles "clap."

Coax: Think of the idea of chopping wood together.

Compendious: Feels all-encompassing like a "pendemic."

Comradeship: Think of the image of raiding together in a game.

Congruent: Think of "con" (together) and "grow."

Connive: Resembles "con" (together) and "naive."

Constipate: Gives the feeling of stimulating together.

Conundrum: Reminds of the detective Conan.

Coquet: Resembles the sound of a cat.

Corrugated: Think of the image of a wrinkled rug.

Cosset: Reminds of being cozy.

Cottage: Gives the feeling of knitting with cotton in a small house.

Crave: To deeply desire something, akin to the crane in the story of the crane and the fox, who longs to eat.

Cripple: Think of the idea of crawling.

Croon: Resembles "groove."

Curb: Think of the idea of a curved road.

Curmudgeon: Think of the word of 'curse'.

<br>

<br>

## D

Daft: Contrasts with "deft."

Dally: Think of the idea of being dull.

Daunt: Reminiscent of "down."

Dawdle: Resembles "toddle."

Debauchery: Think of the idea of the devil.

Decant: Think of it as "de" (away) + "can" pouring.

Demure: Gives the feeling of being modest from behind.

Depravity: Think of it as "de" (not) + "pray."

Descry: Resembles "describe."

Diatribe: An excessive statement splitting a tribe in two directions.

Dingy: Reminds of the Australian dingo.

Dip: Because it's not deep.

Doughty: Reminds of the YouTuber 'Dotty.'

Douse: Using many doses of a digestive medicine.

Dovish: Think of Harry Potter's Dobby.

Dour: Resembles "dull."

Dribble: Resembles "drop."

Drivel: Sounds like dribble in words.

Droll: Resembles "troll."

Drool: Resembles "drop."

Droop (meaning to sag downwards) **:** It might remind one of the similarly pronounced word "druid."

Drudgery: Think of the image of dry laundry.

Duke: Resembles "Death Note" Ryuk.

Dupe: Resembles the pronunciation of a "cover."

<br>

<br>

## E

Eavesdrop: Imagines words dropping into the ear.

Ecumenic: Acumen (perception) going outwards and unifying.

Eerie: Sounds like "eerie."

Effulgent: Think of the idea of fire.

Emaciate: Memorize it as if turning into a non-human state.

Ember: Resembles the color amber.

Embroil: Resembles "embrace."

Enfeeble: Gives the feeling of blood coming out.

Etiolate: Think of the idea of becoming white.

Execrable: Feels like handwriting that's crab-like and awkward.

Exhilarate: Resembles "heal."

<br>

<br>

## F

Fabricate: Though its origin is from the word 'fabric' (a type of material), it's easier to remember by associating it with 'fable' (a fictional tale).

Falter: Think of 'fluttering.'

Fastidious: Fast but well-tied.

Feign: Conjures up something fake.

Festering: Think of a long-lasting pest.

Fetid: Smells like feet.

Fickle: Pickles change easily.

Finicky: Seeks only fine things.

Flagrant: Someone with a flag on their face is infamous.

Flaunt: Conjures up flamboyance or boasting.

Flay: Think of play.

Flounder: Conjures up faltering.

Fluster: Lustre falls away, causing confusion.

Fodder: Think of a forage.

Foment: Think of a foe.

Forage: Think of for + age (generation).

Fornicate: Similar to the word "porn."

Frisk: Conjures up the under-tail frisk.

Fritter away: Turn money into fried food.

Frolicsome: Feels like frolicking, like a frog.

Fulmination: Fully exploding.

Fumble: Conjures up false + humble.

Fundus: Think of 'fundamental'.

Fuzzy: Feels like fuzzy fluffiness.

<br>

<br>

## G

Gaffe: Making a mistake by calling it "caffe."

Gallop: Think of Gallup poll.

Gangling: Think of ganglioside.

Garner: Gathering sheaves in a garden.

Garnish: Conjures up a garden.

Gasp: Think of gas or grasp.

Gaudy: Resembles "goudy" and "gorgeous."

Gaunt: Gives a gaunt feeling.

Gawky: Gives a gaunt feeling.

Gibberish: Conjures up gibberish.

Gird: Think of a grid.

Give 

Glaze: Glassy.

Glean: Conjures up a park.

Glee: Think of the TV show 'Glee.'

Gloat: Gloating makes a sound like a goat.

Gloss: Conjures up glass.

Glossary **:** Think of 'gross'.

Goad: Think of "go."

Gouge: Violently inserting a flag into a gouge.

Grill: Interrogating as if threatening with a grill.

Grisly: Conjures up a grizzly bear.

Gritty: Conjures up a grid.

Groveling: Grooving to a groove.

Grueling: Growling like a beast.

Gruesome: Think of 'grueling'

Guffaw: Laughs with a "Look at that!" sound.

Guzzle: Drinking until you make a "gulp" sound.

<br>

<br>

## H

Hackneyed: Think of a hacker's life.

Hail: Conjures up people's wave.

Halcyon: Think of a halo while greeting.

Hale: Feels like inhaling and exhaling well.

Hangdog: Think of hung + dog.

Harangue: Think of arranging something.

Harass: Think of the Greek goddess Hera.

Harrow: Think of harvest.

Harry: Harry meets Sally.

Haul: The feeling of pulling a moving castle.

Hearth: Conjures up a heart.

Heckle: Harassing through hacking.

Hectic: Feeling like "hectic" breathing.

Hermetic: Her method is ambiguous.

Hiatus: Think of hide (pronunciation is similar).

Hive: Think of the webtoon "Hive."

Hoard: Gathering stacks for a horse.

Hoax: Conjures up a fox.

Hoist: Feels like Doraemon's "Hoi" sound.

Hone: Sharpening with a hone.

Hubris: Treating others like debris, akin to haughtiness.

Huddle: Hurdles piled up in a warehouse.

Hurly-burly: Turmoil.

Hushed: Shh.

<br>

<br>

## I

Idyllic: Ideal idle feeling.

Imminent: "Already" coming to mind.

Imposter: Conjures up an imposter.

Impudent: Think of a concept with few manners.

Inaugurate: Think of arguing a point.

Incarcerate: Thinkg of Caesar

Inchoate: Think of an inch.

Inkling: Think of "in" + cling.

Insouciant: Not seeking, like "in" + "sought."

Inured: Think of getting used to something bad.

Inveigle: Conjures up a bagel.

Irk: Think of an orc.

Island: Think of Iceland.

Itinerant: Think of an itinerary.

<br>

<br>

## **J**

Jaded: "J did it again."

Jangle: Sounds like jangling.

Jaundice: Juice color.

Jaunt: Think of journey + aunt.

Jaunty: Conjures up a jaunt.

Jaywalk: Walking in a J shape.

Jeer: Feeling of shouting.

Jejune: Old Jeju was a barren land.

Jettison: Originates from discarding cargo with a jet.

Jibe: Mocking someone as "jiji-bae" or "jibe" with women.

Jitter: Conjures up house raids. Or a feeling of the heart racing like a cheetah.

Juggernaut: Taste of death.

Jumble: Jumping and mixing everything.

Jinx: Conjures up judging.

Jut: Like a jutting neck.

<br>

<br>

## **K**

Karma: Conjugation of "카르마" in a reverse trial.

Kismet: Kiss and meet.

Kitschy: Conjures up kitty.

Kleptomaniac: Conjures up clapping wrists.

Knavery: Some people do knavery when left alone.

Kudos: Conjures up Kudo Shinichi.

<br>

<br>

## **L**

Lament: Eating ramen sadly.

Larceny: Conjures up "날치기" (stealing).

Leeway: Leave away and have freedom.

Lesion: Think of 'region'.

Levy: Collecting taxes in mid-air.

Lewd: Conjures up rudeness.

Liaison: Think of 'liability'.

Limber: Conjures up limbs or limbo.

Limpid: Think of lymph fluid.

Listless: Feeling listless due to low ranking.

Litany: Conjures up a rite.

Livid: Think of the liver.

Loiter: Think of Reuters.

Loathe: Think of loss

Lout **:** Think of riot.

Lugubrious: Tears falling like luggage.

Lump: Can plump up and drop.

Lurch: Stumbling due to skipping lunch.

Lurk: Luckily hiding and waiting.

<br>

<br>

## **M**

Macerate: Softening with effort.

Malinger: Malingering poorly.

Malleable: Can be "mailed."

Manqué: Becoming "manqué."

Marsh: Related to marshmallow.

Martyr: Someone who died at the end of a martial war.

Matter: Mind 

> What is matter? ― Never mind.

> What is mind? ― No matter.

> ―Punch, 1855

Maven: Marvelous expertise.

Maverick: Maverick or Top Gun's Maverick comes to mind.

Mawkish: Choking to the point of feeling choked.

Mayhem: Mayhem can cause harm.

Mellifluous: Related to marshmallow.

Mildew: Think of dew.

Mirth: Conjures up mercy.

Moat: Think of pond in Korean, yeon'moat'

Mollify: Think of "soft and squishy."

Moot: Asking strange questions repeatedly.

Mountebank: Feels like a bank on a mountain.

Muck: Think of mud.

Mull: Feels like whatever you do doesn't turn out well.

Murky: Feels murky.

Mutter: Think of mumbling.

<br>

<br>

## **O**

Obscene: Think of obliteration + scene.

Obtuse: Reminds of obesity.

Odium: The feeling of oddness.

Ovation: Feeling of overdoing.

Overhaul: Feeling of checking the moving castle.

Outstrip: Think of out + string.

<br>

<br>

## **P**

Paean: Think of fire.

Pagoda: Reminds of Pagoda Language School.

Palate: Think of food (plate).

Paltry: Reminds of poultry.

Pan: Think of 패이다 (criticize).

Panache: Feels as confident as the most effective panacea in the middle of a cure.

Pandemic: Think of fandom of famous celebrities.

Panning: Think of 'pain'.

Pariah: Think of party.

Parch: Reminds of where a pariah has been banished.

Peevish: Attitude of saying, "I will show you."

Pejorative: Feels like "I'll pay you."

Pep: Think of vitality received through a pipe.

Peregrination: Home of Peregrin and strange children.

Perplex: Thought it was perfect, but...

Pilfer: Feeling of stealing small things like pills.

Pillage: Feeling of pillaging pills.

Pine: Pine tree leaning, feeling sad.

Pinion: Think of a pin.

Pique: Something specific keeps poking.

Plebeian: Think of the public.

Plucky: Knows how to wield a sword.

Poke: Fork.

Ponderous: Feeling too big just thinking about it.

Prate: Similar to praying.

Predicament: Feeling of being confused about how to predict what to do next.

Preen: Dressing up like a prince.

Prevaricate: Beating around with various reasons.

Prod: Think of poking with a rod.

Proselytize: Selling one's ideas.

Prostrate: Reminds of the shape of the prostate.

Puckish: Think of the character "Puck."

Pudge: Think of phage.

Puerile: Think of intellectual deficiency.

Puissant: Think of push.

Pulchritude: Think of perl.

Pulverize: Feeling of pulverizing with a pulse.

Pummel **:** Think of punch.

Puny: Think of few.

Pushover: Easily pushed because it's a pushover.

Putrid: Smells when detached.

<br>

<br>

## **Q**

Quack: Makes a quack sound to quacks.

Qualm: A feeling of being blocked.

<br>

<br>

## **R**

Raffish: Think of a rabbit.

Rag: Dirty rug.

Rake: Think of a lake.

Ransack: Run and seek.

Raspy: Comes off raspy like a ras guest.

Rebut: The feeling of continuously shouting "but."

Recalcitrant: Opposite + calm.

Recoil: Feeling of being compressed like a coil.

Recondite: Feeling of conditions continuously changing.

Recluse: Feeling of closing the door and not coming out.

Refulgent: Think of fire.

Remiss: Continuously missing.

Repartee: Feeling of making witty remarks at a party.

Requite: Feeling of generously compensating later.

Resort to: Remind yourself of a 'resort'.

Resurrect: Remind 'resurvive'

Retaliate: Think of the Taliban.

Ribald: Feels like exposing the skin like a bald head.

Rickety: Think of being leaky.

Rile: Feeling annoyed and causing a riot.

Rive: Think of getting rid of something.

Roil: Think of rolling.

Roue: Thinks of someone named "Rou" as a ruffian.

Rowdy: Think of loudy.

Rubbish: Imagines flies rubbing their hands together.

Rubble: Think of rocks and bubbles.

Ruckus: Feeling of rocks flying around.

Rue: Feeling of losing.

Ruffle: Think of the Python library RUR-PLE.

Ruse: Feeling of strategizing to make the opponent lose.

<br>

<br>

## **S**

Salacious: Think of being salacious.

Sally: Reminds of Harry meeting Sally.

Sap: Think of sipping.

Sardonic: Sometimes sarcasm can be even worse.

Sartorial: Outfits are special when dancing salsa.

Scoundrel: Villains are often involved in scandals.

Scrimp: Feeling of saving shrimp-shaped sleep.

Scrupulous: Carefully working with a screw puller.

Seamy: Think of seeming.

Seep: Think of sap.

Seethe: Feeling of a big storm or boiling.

Seraglio: Think of seraphic.

Seraphic: Thinks of the angel Seraph.

Shackle: Imagines shaking handcuffs.

Sham: Feeling of throwing a fake while saying "It's genuine."

Shibboleth: Thinks of "Shibbelom."

Shirk: Thinks of Shrek avoiding everything.

Shoddy: Think of something shabby.

Shrewd: Senses are sharp like a sword.

Shriek: Shouts when seeing Shrek.

Shudder: Imagines shoulders shivering.

Sift: Thinks of the sieve of Eratosthenes.

Similarity: Seem

Simmer: Think of summer.

Skirmish **:** Think of 'skull'.

Skittish: Think of a scared kitty.

Skulduggery: Feels like using a skull mask to deceive.

Slick: Feels too smooth and slippery.

Slink: Slowly connects like a link.

Sloppy: Reminds of sloth or slippery.

Slouch: Slope with a couch to lean on.

Slovenly: Think of a slave.

Smug: Feels like hiding behind smog and being self-satisfied.

Snarl: Feels like Arsenal.

Sneak: Reminds of Sony or sneakers.

Snub: Unsure, possibly "snub + B."

Sober: Servers always need to stay alert.

Sobriquet: Reminds of abridge.

Sojourn: Reminds of a special outfit worn during salsa dancing.

Sordid: Involves various ways to sort.

Spate **:** Think of 'span'.

Splinter: Feels like cutting sections from a sprint in short-distance running.

Spurious: Appears genuine only on the surface.

Spurn: Think of spurring.

Squeal: Mimics the sound "squeal."

Squeak: Mimics the sound "squeak."

Squeamish: Think of 'squeeze'

Stalwart: Think of strong

Stammer: Think of stagger

Stark: Think of Tony Stark from the movie 'Iron Man'

Staunch: Think of a sense of staying

Stentorian: stands tall and shouts loudly

Stern: feels like it stuns

Stint: Think of thin

Stout: Think of strong

Straddle **:** Think of the word of 'stride'

Strident: Think of the word of 'stride'

Stumble: Think of stumbling over a stump

Stupendous: ridiculously huge like stupidity

Suave: sweet

Sulky: Think of sulking

Sultry: Think of thirst

Sunder: feels like tearing with the force of thunder

Sundry: drying "various" objects under the sun

Surreptitious: like a sneaky drawer

Swath: Think of swaying

Swindle: Think of gaining a bundle of money by swinging power

Sybarite: cyber people pursue pleasure

<br>

<br>

## **T**

Tack: Think of Tick-Tack-Toe

Tacky: emphasizes "tacky" instead of tasty

Talon: Think of the character LOL Talon

Tart: tastes like tart

Tatty: too worn teddy bear or clothes teetering like a homeless person

Tatter : too worn teddy bear or clothes teetering like a homeless person

Taunt: feels like teasing with a tent

Taxing: feels like taxing heavily

Tawdry: dry at the toes

Tepid: when water is tepid, it dries

Terse: when speech is terse, people seem straightforward

Testy: feels like taking a test

Tetchy: a feeling of getting irritated at 'when'

Thug: walking with your chin up

Ticklish: like having a lot of dust

Tiff: a situation where the body stiffens

Tipsy: not completely drunk but a bit tipsy

Tirade: feels like getting tired

Titillate: stimulating with a provocative title

Toil: the moment right before going to the toilet, or slowly pulling out toilet paper

Topple: what babies do when they toddle

Torpid: "Again?" in Korean...

Tout: Think of 'tutor'.

Tranquil: Think of "quiet"

Trite: something treated routinely

Trounce: Think of triumph

Truculent: like a truck called Tarantula

Turgod: Think of turbulent

Tussle: fuss

<br>

<br>

## **U**

Ululate: the feeling of saying "ululate"

Umbrage: memorize it as "unable to bear"

Uncouth: associated with uncle

Unctuous: associated with uncle

Ungainly: not gaining fame

Unleash: similar to "release"

<br>

<br>

## **V**

Vanish: associated with banish

Varnish: associated with vanish  

Vast: sounds similar to "best"

Vaunt: I bend this much

Veer: looks like swaying after drinking beer

Venial: venom + menial

Verve: feels like gaining vitality through a valve

Vestige: Think of visiting

Vicarious: associated with vicinity  

Vie: feels like fighting with tragedy

Vigilant: think of 'vision'

<br>

<br>

## **W**

Waffle: just like waffles, verbose and mixed

Waft: Think of 'wave'.

Wag: makes you chatter

Wale: feels like hitting a whale with a whip

Wanton: continuous want

Warble: creates wonder with words

Warp: Think of warp

Wax: standing hair with wax

Welter: Think of waltzing

Wheedle: Think of whistling

Wheeze: Think of whistling

Whelp: Think of whales

Whet: brain + wet  

Whim: feeling fickle

Whine: whining like a wine while drinking with a needle. Also think of "My wife is whining to drink wine."

<br>

<p><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aGByIZAzLhQ" width="852" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe></p>

<br>

Wile: associated with will  

Willowy: bending like a willow

Winnow: to classify, you need to 'know'

Winsome: wind, or attracted to the winner

Wishy-washy: wishy and washy look similar in appearance

Wraith: Think of MapleStory Wraith

Wrest: Think of wrist

Wrought: Think of brought

<br>

<br>

## **Z**

Zealot: Think of jealousy

Zeigeist: the spirit of the times feels giant

<br>

---

_Input: 2021.03.21 23:03_
