## _**TOEFL iBT**_ **Introduction**

Recommended Post **:** 【Study Abroad Admissions】 [Official Language Tests (TOEFL, IELTS, GRE)](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2249)

---

**1.** [Overview](#1-overview)

**2.** [Scores](#2-scores)

**3.** [Free Study Materials](#3-free-study-materials)

**4.** [Posts Related to TOEFL](#4-posts-related-to-toefl)

---

<br>

## **1\. Overview**

 ⑴ Time

> ① 3 hours for the test, 30 minutes for check-in

> ② If the exam starts at 10 am, you must arrive by 9 am to proceed with reading and speaking without greatly affecting others

 ⑵ **Type 1.** Reading

> ① Before revision (until 2023)

>> ○ 80 minutes 40 questions

>> ○ 4 reading passages: 10 questions per passage

> ② After revision (2024 revision)

>> ○ 40 minutes 20 questions

>> ○ 2 reading passages: 10 questions per passage

 ⑵ **Type 2.** Listening

> ① **2-1.** 2-3 conversations: a total of 11 questions

> ② **2-2.** 3-4 lectures: a total of 17 questions

> ③ Takes 41-57 minutes

 ⑶ **Type 3.** Speaking

> ① Before revision (until 2020 or 2021?)

>> ○ 1st - Independent

>> ○ 2nd - Independent

>> ○ 3rd - Integrated: University life (reading + conversation)

>> ○ 4th - Integrated: University lecture (reading + lecture)

>> ○ 5th - Integrated: University life (conversation)

>> ○ 6th - Integrated: University lecture (lecture)

> ② After revision

>> ○ 1st - Independent. 15 seconds preparation, 30 seconds speaking

>> ○ 2nd - Integrated: University life (reading + conversation). 30 seconds preparation, 60 seconds speaking

>> ○ 3rd - Integrated: University lecture (reading + lecture). 30 seconds preparation, 60 seconds speaking

>> ○ 4th - Integrated: University lecture (lecture). 20 seconds preparation, 60 seconds speaking

> ③ [TOEFL Speaking real situation practice and template](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1266)

> ④ [How to Speak in English](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2175)

 ⑸ **Type 4.** Writing

> ① Before revision (until 2023)

>> ○ 2 tasks: 1 integrated, 1 independent

>> ○ Integrated: Article + professor's lecture summary. Takes 25 minutes. 280-300 characters

>> ○ Independent: Present personal opinion. Takes 25 minutes. 380-400 characters

> ② After revision (2024 revision)

>> ○ 2 tasks: 1 integrated, 1 discussion comment

>> ○ Integrated: Article + professor's lecture summary. Takes 25 minutes. Over 280 characters

>> ○ Independent: Given a prompt, discussion of two students, write a comment of over 100 characters to join the discussion. Takes 10 minutes

> ④ [TOEFL Writing real situation practice and template](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1127)

<br>

<br>

## **2\. Scores**

 ⑴ _TOEFL iBT_ Ⓡ score

 **Table. 1.** _TOEFL_ Ⓡ iBT score

 ⑵ Relationship between _TOEFL_ Ⓡ score and CEFR level

 **Table. 2.** Relationship between _TOEFL_ Ⓡ score and CEFR level

 ⑶ _MyBest™_ Score

> ① A system that allows submission of a score report composed of the highest scores in each section from tests taken in the past two years

> ② Applies to all score reports sent after August 1, 2019, regardless of the test date

> ③ The current score report can also be submitted as is

> ④ Confirmation of acceptance by universities and institutions is essential

 ⑷ Online Self-report Score

> ① A PDF document uploaded to the U.S. graduate school application portals etc., for the reference of the Admission Committee

> ② Caution is advised as once printed, it cannot be printed again **:** especially since the TOEFL MyBestScore is continuously updated and may not reflect changes

 **Figure. 1.** Online Self-report Score button

 For each test, "Print / Download PDF Report" can only be clicked once

<br>

<br>

## **3\. Free Study Materials**

 ⑴ _TOEFL_ Ⓡ Test Preparation: The Insider's Guide

 ⑵ _TOEFL iBT_ Ⓡ Free Practice Test

 ⑶ _TOEFL iBT_ Ⓡ Practice Sets

 ⑷ _TOEFL iBT_ Ⓡ Test Prep Planner

 ⑸ The Official Guide to the _TOEFL_ Ⓡ Test

 ⑹ Official _TOEFL iBT_ Ⓡ Tests - V1 & V2

 ⑺ _TOEFL_ Ⓡ Practice Online

 ⑻ _TOEFL_ Ⓡ Value Packs

<br>

<br>

## **4\. Posts Related to TOEFL**

 ⑴ [Toefl Speaking Actual Situation Practice and Template](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1266)

 ⑵ [Toefl Speaking Actual Situation Practice and Template (Private)](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2211)

 ⑶ [Toefl Writing Template](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1127)

<br>

---

_Entered**:** 2021.10.15 11:27_
