## **Famous Phrase**

Recommendation: 【Philosophy】 [My Questions and Principles](https://jb243.github.io/pages/482)

---

**1.** [Success](#1-success)

**2.** [Politics](#2-politics)

**3.** [Science](#3-science)

**4.** [Philosophy](#4-philosophy)

**5.** [Relationship](#5-relationship)

**6.** [Law](#6-law)

**7.** [Education](#7-education)

**8.** [Economy](#8-economy)

---

<br>

## **1. Success**

○ Gary Player

> ○ The harder I work, the luckier I get.

○ Nelson Mandela

> ○ There is no passion to be found playing small and settling for a life that's less than the one  you're capable of living.

○ Steve Jobs

> ○ You can't connect the dots looking forward. You can only connect the dots looking backward.

> ○ Keep looking. Don't settle.

> ○ Don't waste your time living someone else's life.

> ○ Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking.

> ○ Stay hungry, stay foolish.

> ○ I had been rejected, but I was still in love.

○ Jeff Bezos

> ○ Big things start small.

> ○ I've made billions of dollars of failures at Amazon.com.

> ○ You don't just fix the symptom, you have to fix the root cause.

> ○ Never, ever, ever lean away from the future.

> ○ Having a passion is a gift.

> ○ The stress primarily comes from not taking action over something that you can't have some controls over.

> ○ If you can figure out your calling, you hit the jackpot.

○ Donald Trump

> ○ Treat the word 'impossible' as nothing more than motivation.

> ○ Nothing worth doing ever, ever, ever came easy.

> ○ We don't worship goverment, we worship God.

> ○ Pray to God, and follow his teachings.

> ○ The more righteous your fight, the more opposition that you will face.

> ○ Never stop fighting for what you believe in and for the people who care about you.

> ○ Relish the opportunity to be an outsider.

> ○ You should think like you are a winner.

> ○ I'm somebody that has a good instinct financially. I have historically followed markets. I've been going the right direction. It's New York real estate or stocks or whatever.

○ Elon Musk

> ○ No I don't ever give up. I'd have to be dead or completely incapacitated.

> ○ Who won the patent war between Apple and Samsung?- Attorneys.

> ○ You want to wake up in the morning and think the future is going to be great.

> ○ And that's what being a spacefaring civilization is all about.

> ○ It's about believing in the future and thinking that the future will be better than the past.

> ○ And I can't think of anything more exciting than going out there and being among the stars.

> ○ If something is important enough you should try, even if the probable outcome is failure.

> ○ Work like hell.

○ Mark Zuckerberg

> ○ The biggest risk you can take is not taking any risk.

○ Denzel Washington

> ○ Every failed experiment is one step closer to success.

> ○ Fail big. Dream big.

> ○ Hard work works.

> ○ Dreams without goals are just dreams.

> ○ You will fail at some point and accept it. You will lose.

> ○ If you don't fail, you are not even trying.

> ○ To get something you never had, you have to do something you never did.

○ Mathew McConaughy

> There's a difference in thinking you are a champion and knowing that you are.

○ Albert Einstein

> ○ Genius consists of 1% inspiration and 99% effort.

> ○ Racism is a white man's disease.

> ○ A discovery is said to be an accident meeting with a prepared mind.

○ Yoann Bourgeois

> ○ The path to success is not straight, but it is important not to give up until the end.

○ Admiral McRaven

> ○ What starts here changes the world.

> ○ If you want to change the world, you must be your very best in the darkest moments.

> ○ If you want to change the world, start singing when you're up to your neck in mud.

> ○ If you want to change the world, don't ever ever ring the bell.

○ Dan Peña

> ○ Once you become fearless, life becomes limitless.

○ Andrew Tate

> ○ They’re likely to become the sum of the five people they spend the most time with. 

○ Charles Dickens

> ○ It was the best of times it was the worst of times.

○ Guus Hiddink

> ○ I'm still hungry.

○ 〈Sindbad's Adventures〉

> ○ Don't invade, and don't allow them invade.

○ 〈Berserk〉

> ○ There is no paradise where you have fled.

○ 〈Jujutsu Kaisen〉

> ○ Blaming others for my own incompetence is something that has never happened in my life, and it will never happen in the future.

○ Harvey Dent

> ○ Will you die quickly and become a hero; or become a villain and live long?

○ Tony Stark (Iron Man)

> ○ If you're nothing without the suit, then you shouldn't have it at all. 

○ Bat man

> ○ It’s always darkest before the dawn.

○ Sīmǎ Qiān

> ○ Revenge of a gentleman is not too late to take ten years.

○ Helen Keller

> ○ The highest result of education is tolerance.

○ Betrand Russel

> ○ I think we ought always to entertain out opinions with some measure of double. I shouldn’t wish people dogmatically to believe any philosophy, not even mine.

○ Margaret Mead

> ○ Never doubt a small group of thoughtful citizen could change the world.

○ A. Philip Randolph 

> ○ Freedom is never given; it is won.

○ Jimmy Carr 

> ○ Everyone is jealous of what you've got. No one is jealous of how you got it. 

○ Sir Francis Drake

> ○ There must be a beginning of any great matter, but the continuing unto the end until it be thoroughly finished yields the true glory.

○ Anders Ericsson

> ○ If you train for 10,000 hours, you can become an expert in that field. 

○ Hungarian Proverb

> ○ It's better to die clean than to live dirty.

○ Others

> ○ There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.

> ○ Be famous for now. Then people will applaud you even if you poo on the street.

> ○ The only person whose behavior we can control is our own.

> ○ All we can give another person is information.

> ○ Try not to become a man of success but rather to become a man of value.

> ○ Pressure makes diamond. 

> ○ I'll see you at the top because the bottom is too crowded. But we never look down on anybody unless we're willing to help them up.

<br>

<br>

## **2. Politics**

○ Joseph De Maestre

> ○ Every citizen has a government at that level.

○ Pindaros

> ○ War is sweet for those who have not experienced it.

○ Thomas Jefferson

> ○ I would prefer newspapers without a government to a government without newspapers. 

○ Dante

> ○ The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who, in times of moral crisis, maintain their neutrality.

○ Fannie Lou Hamer 

> ○ When I liberate myself, I liberate others. If you don’t speak out ain’t nobody going to speak out for you.

<br>

<br>
 
## **3. Science**

○ Galileo Galilei

> ○ Nature is the language of mathematics.

> ○ Mathematics is the language in which God has written the universe.

○ Albert Einstein

> ○ Thinking is an end in itself. Just like music.

○ Arthur C. Clarke 

> ○ A sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.

> ○ The only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them into the impossible.

○ Carl Jaspers

> ○ Technology transcends good and evil.

○ A. Kornbery

> ○ Chemistry is the language of life.

○ Bill Nye

> ○ Science is the key to our future.

○ Max Perutz

> ○ Exploring is a process that leads to one, asking and answering one question and then finding and answering the next question.

○ Atistotle

> ○ The whole is greater than the sum of its parts.

<br>
<br>

## **4. Philosophy**

○ Heidegger: Language is the house of Being

○ Kimberly Kirberger: If I Knew Then What I Know Now 

○ Art is long and life is short.

○ Know yourself.

○ Kyojuro Rengoku: Humans age and die. The man is the beauty of creature.

○ Hamlet: There is no good or evil in the world; only thinking makes it so.

○ Saint Augustine: To err is human, but to persist in error is diabolical.

○ Machiavelli: Time is the father of all truth.

<br>

<br>

## **5. Relationship**

○ Arthur Schopenhauer

> ○ To live is to suffer.

> ○ Today is but once.

> ○ All our unhappiness comes from our inability to be alone.

> ○ The greater the intelligence, the more the tendency to be solitary; the lesser the intelligence, the more the tendency to be sociable.

> ○ Solitude is the characteristic of great minds.

○ Jeff Bezos

> ○ Will you guard your heart against rejection? Or, will you act when you fall in love?

○ Erich Fromm

> ○ The belief in love as a collective and universal phenomenon, rather than an exceptional and individual occurrence, is a rational judgment based on human reason.

○ Daniel Lindeman

> ○ Marriage is a beautiful grave.

○ Charles Bodleiz

> ○ My wife is dead. I'm free!

○ Nassim Nicholas Taleb

> ○ People almost always call you smart because they agree with your opinion. If not, they call you arrogant.

○ Fallout: New Vegas

> ○ Always be ready to start, but know when to let go.

○ Others

> ○ Have the courage to be hated by humans. It is natural to be hated.

<br>

<br>

## **6. Law**

> ○ The law is the interest of the strong.

> ○ The law is the minimum of common sense.

> ○ The law is a dense net that only lets big fish escape.

<br>

<br>

## **7. Education**

> ○ **Bill Gates**: The world has changed, but education remains the same.

<br>

<br>

## **8. Economy**

> ○ The lottery is a tax on people who can't do math. - Ambrose Bierce

<br>

---

*Input: 2022.04.05 17:06*

_Revised: 2023.08.28 19:03_
