## **Interview Questions for Graduate Schools and Scholarships**

Recommendation **:** 【Studying Abroad】 [Studying Abroad Index](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2194)

---

<br>

#### **Basics and Expertises** 

> **1.** What kind of research will you do and what kind of plans will you make?

> **2.** How does my research help Korea and society? 

<br>

#### **Mindset and Duty**

> **1.** Do you have two qualities of a state-funded scholarship student and whether you have both?

> **2.** What is the spirit of the modern age?

> **3.** When was your country proudest and why?

> **4.** What is justice?

> **5.** Why should we help developing countries?

> **6.** What kind of volunteer work have you done?

> **7.** What is the evidence of a sense of duty to your country that you can present?

> **8.** How will you contribute to your country?

> **9.** Why did you apply for the scholarship for studying abroad even if there are many other scholarships?

> **10.** What was the most interesting thing about your country's history

> **11.** What are the causes of low birth in your country?

> **12.** What are major problems in your country?

> **13.** Is individual success important?

> **14.** Why is your country special?

<br>

#### **Responsivility and Creativity**

> **1.** What do you do when you have trouble with your advisor?

> **2.** How do you resolve conflicts with your colleagues?

> **3.** Why do you have to study abroad?

> **4.** Why did you choose this school and this area of study?

> **5.** What is the most difficult moment of your life and how did you overcome it?

> **6.** What is the moment that made someone proud the most?

> **7.** What is the most disappointing moment in your life?

> **8.** What's the project that you've been working on for quite a while?

> **9.** Do you have a confidence to get into the listed universities?

> **10.** What are your own strengths and weakness?

> **11.** What will you do today when the world is doomed tomorrow?

> **12.** How do you take care of your health?

> **13.** What is the person you respect?

> **14.** What is your hobby?

> **15.** What are special points of you compared to the others?

> **16.** What will you do when you can only find one of your friends or lovers?

<br>

---

<br>

Input: 2022.07.14 13:39
