## **Gene Library** 

Recommendation: 【Bioinformatics】 [Bioinformatics Index](https://jb243.github.io/pages/836) 

---

**1.** [Overview](#1-overview)

**2.** [Description of each gene](#2-description-of-each-gene)

---

**a.** [Gene Score Library](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2215) 

**b.** [Cell Type Marker Genes](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1846)

---

<br>

## **1. Overview**

⑴ Notation rule

> ① When referring to genes, italics (_e.g._, _COL1A1_) are used, and when referring to proteins, vertical characters (_e.g._, COL1A1) are used.

> ② However, here, I will unify them by vertical characters.

⑵ _Homo sapiens_ (human) 

> ① Genes are all capital letters.

> ② [36601 genes based on GRCh38 reference (ENSG)](https://blog.kakaocdn.net/dn/uvTk2/btrGWbTacuw/xBmxECOK2dLuh6FNOu2oZK/human_genes_36601.tsv?attach=1&knm=tfile.tsv) 

> ③ [Human gene annotation (24424 genes)](https://blog.kakaocdn.net/dn/8Zc1A/btrWeHc47ri/z2k8HoMm1w6iB3PIx2y0s0/tfile.csv)

>> ○ Gene ID

>> ○ Entrez ID

>> ○ chromosome number, start, end, width

>> ○ strand

>> ○ transcript ID (transcript_id)

>> ○ bioType

>> ○ aliases

>> ○ protein ID (p_id)

>> ○ description

⑶ _Mus musculus_ (mouse)

> ① Only the first letter of the gene is uppercase and the rest is lowercase

> ② [32285 genes based on mm10 reference (ENSMUSG)](https://blog.kakaocdn.net/dn/bUHYph/btrGRjS2Is7/7uB5MIwgYiJNN2vnXpfcE1/mouse_genes_32285.tsv?attach=1&knm=tfile.tsv)

> ③ [Gene homology between human and mouse](https://nate9389.tistory.com/2156#:~:text=%EC%82%AC%EB%9E%8C%EA%B3%BC%20%EB%A7%88%EC%9A%B0%EC%8A%A4%EC%9D%98%20%EC%83%81%EB%8F%99(gene%C2%A0homology%C2%A0between%C2%A0human%C2%A0and%C2%A0mouse))

> ④ [Mouse gene annotation (23282 genes)](https://blog.kakaocdn.net/dn/dSxtNu/btrTkgVXVez/wNuKXBexetJkuYfvcHCMYK/mouse%20gene%20annotation.csv?attach=1&knm=tfile.csv) 

>> ○ Gene ID

>> ○ Entrez ID

>> ○ chromosome number, start, end, width

>> ○ strand

>> ○ protein ID (p_id)

>> ○ transcript ID (transcript_id)

>> ○ tss_id

>> ○ bioType

>> ○ Aliases

>> ○ Description

⑷ For other information, see [https://www.scinapse.io/](https://www.scinapse.io/), [https://typeset.io/](https://typeset.io/), which curated billions of papers.

<br>

<br>

## **2. Description of each gene**

> ○ ABCA1: It plays a role in cholesterol transport

> ○ ABCC11

>> ○ Related to body odor

>> ○ **Type 1.** Type A gene: Less apocrine sweat, resulting in weaker body odor

>> ○ **Type 2.** Type G gene: Active secretion of sweat from apocrine glands

>> ○ **Type 3.** Type AA gene: There is also a Type AA gene that does not mix with the Type G gene

>> ○ The Type A gene is common in East Asians, while the Type G gene is more frequently expressed in Africans and Europeans

>> ○ In relation to the expression of the ABCC11 gene, Koreans are among the ethnic groups with the least body odor.

>> ○ Additional Explanation on Aging and Body Odor: As we age, the amount of a substance called nonenal, which is produced when fatty acids in sebum oxidize, increases. This substance accumulates in the pores, creating a musty odor. Additionally, after the age of 40, the ability to eliminate nonenal gradually decreases due to a decrease in beneficial skin bacteria, skin acidification, and changes in lipid composition, resulting in stronger body odor.

> ○ ACKR3

>> ○ Upregulation may occur in activated endothelial cells

>> ○ It may contribute to tumor angiogenesis
 
> ○ ACTA2, Acta2 (α-SMA) 

>> ○ structural marker 

>> ○ smooth muscle actin gene

> ○ ActB, ACTB: Related to actin. cell motility

> ○ ACTG2: Related to cell motility

> ○ ADAM8

>> ○ Encoding disintegrin and metalloprotease domain 

>> ○ Membrane-anchored protein

> ○ ADARB1: Encoding A-to-I (adenosine-to-inosine) RNA editing enzyme

> ○ Afp: Encoding the fetal serum proteinEalfa feto-protein

> ○ ALOX5A: Synthesis of LXA4, an anti-inflammatory lipoxin

> ○ ALOX5AP: Synthesis of LXA4, an anti-inflammatory lipoxin

> ○ ANCR: Suppression of epidermal differentiation

> ○ ANXA1: Repressor of inflammation in T cells

> ○ AQP1: Aquaporin gene, alveolar endothelial cell marker

> ○ AREG: Related to fibrosis by TGF-β

> ○ ARHGAP11B:  A gene that only humans have. A gene that makes human smart

> ○ BCL11B: Expressed in T cell as a gene that makes B cell lymphoma

> ○ BRCA1: The loss of function for BRCA1 is associated with tandem duplications.

> ○ BRCA2: The loss of function for BRCA2 is associated with chromosomal deletions.

> ○ C1Qb: Modulates synapse elimination

> ○ C3: It suppresses the infiltration and function of CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

> ○ C5ar1: Related to innate immunity

> ○ CCL2: Chemokine that induces immune cells such as macrophages and T cells

> ○ CCL18: Associated with breast cancer metastasis

> ○ CCL19: Related to inflammatory reactions associated with allergies

> ○ CCR9: Mediates T lymphocyte development and migration

> ○ Cd6: Related to immune cell activation

> ○ CD24: T cell survival

> ○ CD29: integrin β-1

> ○ CD31 (PECAM-1; platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1)

>> ○ Characteristic: 130-kDa glycoprotein, transmembrane protein

>> ○ One of the immunoglobulin superfamily genes

>> ○ Expressed in endothelial cells, platelets, white blood cells, etc

>> ○ **Function 1.** Engaged in cell-cell interaction: White blood cells-endothelial cells or endothelial cells-endothelial cells

>> ○ **Function 2.** Activate integrin in white blood cells → activate inflammatory response

>> ○ **Function 3.** Angiogenesis and vascular stabilization

> ○ CD46: Limits complement function
 
> ○ CD55: Limits complement function

> ○ CD58: Related to lymphocyte adhesion

> ○ CD69: An early activation marker of T cell

> ○ CD74: Pro-inflammatory. A known marker for metastatic tumor growth in breast cancer

> ○ CD80: T cell co-stimulation 

> ○ CD163: Scavenger receptor 

> ○ CD276 

>> ○ Encodes an immune checkpoint receptor, B7-H3, which is involved in T-cell regulation 

>> ○ overexpressed on tumor vasculature 

>> ○ a target of ongoing cancer immunotherapy clinical trials in solid tumors

> ○ CD320: Immunoglobulin

> ○ CD44

>> ○ A known marker of breast cancer stem-like cells and stabilizes Treg persistence

> ○ CDC7: CDC7 inhibition delays or prevents escape from targeted therapy.

> ○ Cdkn1a: cell cycle inhibitor 

> ○ Cdh17 

>> ○ Encoding a cadherin protein 

>> ○ Cadherin protein is associated with activation of Wnt signaling 

> ○ CHIT: Encodes chitotriosidase

> ○ CLIC6: A key gene upregulated in IPF 

> ○ CLU

>> ○ Encodes clusterin: 75-80 kDa. Heterodimer proteins linked by disulfide bonds

>> ○ Related to cell debris removal and apoptosis

> ○ COL1A1: Type I collagen

>> ○ Extracellular matrix.

>> ○ One of the activated fibroblast markers.

>> ○ Both normal fibroblasts and cancerous fibroblasts express COL1A1.

>> ○ It facilitates tumor growth inhibition by activating fibroblasts.

> ○ COL1A2: Type I collagen

>> ○ Extracellular matrix.

>> ○ One of the activated fibroblast markers.

>> ○ Normal fibroblasts express COL1A2, while in cancerous fibroblasts, expression of COL1A2 is inhibited by methylation.

>> ○ It facilitates tumor growth inhibition by activating fibroblasts.

> ○ Col3a1: Associated with poor prognosis in colorectal cancer.

> ○ Col4a1: Related to collagen synthesis

> ○ Col4a2: Related to collagen synthesis

> ○ Col6a3 (type VI collagen alpha3): Biomarker of hepatic fibrosis

> ○ Col7a1: Related to collagen synthesis

> ○ Col12a1: Related to collagen synthesis

> ○ COL22A1

>> ○ Encodes collagen type XXII α1 chain

>> ○ Expressed in muscle-tendon junctions at skeletal muscle or cardiac muscle

> ○ CSF1 

>> ○ Encodes a cytokine important for the activation and differentiation of myeloid cells

>> ○ GM-CSF(granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor)

>>> ○ The beta chain of the GM-CSF receptor is not expressed in most resting T cells: This is to prevent over-reaction.
 
>>> ○ Higher expression of GM-CSF than normal levels is required for activation of the alpha chain of the GM-CSF receptor.

> ○ Cst7: A biomarker of inflammation with the amyloid beta plaque in Alzheimer's disease.

> ○ CTHRC1: pathological, pulmonary fibrosis-associated fibroblast marker

> ○ CXCL8: neutrophil chemoattractant

> ○ CXCL12

>> ○ Secreted by CAFs and other stromal cells.

>> ○ **Case 1.** Autocrine fashion → Desmoplasia activation

>> ○ **Case 2.** Paracrine fashion → Immune cell chemotaxis modulation

> ○ CXCL13: B cell chemoattractant, immune cell homing 

> ○ Cyp2e1: central lobule marker in liver

> ○ DCN

>> ○ Expressed in fibroblast 

>> ○ Combined with Type I collagen and Type II collagen to the basal membrane

> ○ Dlx2: Transcription factor Dlx2 determines GABAergic differentiation of neuronal precursors.

> ○ DMMT1 

>> ○ A transcription factor involved in epigenetic regulation of promoter DNA

> ○ ELOVL

>> ○ Promote the elongation of fatty acid carbon chain.

> ○ ENG: Immunomodulation-related gene  

> ○ FASN: A biomarker for invasive cancer cell

> ○ FGF2

>> ○ A protumor angiogenesis factor and induces drug resistance in chemotherapy in breast cancer

> ○ FGFR1

>> ○ Induces the recruitment of macrophages and MDSCs in the tumor

> ○ FOLH1

>> ○ Endoces PSMA(prostate-specific membrane antigen)

>> ○ Antigens isolated from the cancel cell line

>> ○ Originally, if the tumor grade is high, it is common to have neotigen and express it less, but the higher the tumor grade, the more it is expressed

>> ○ PSA is identified in serum but PSMA is expressed in membrane and not in serum

>> ○ anti-PSMA antibody: J591

>> ○ Standard treatment for prostate cancer is changing to PSMA targeting radiation drugs

> ○ FOXA1: A pioneer transcription factor required for breast and prostate cancer cells.

> ○ Gad1: A glutamate decarboxylase involved in synthesizing the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA

> ○ Gad2: Late maturation marker

> ○ GATA4: a known congenital heart disease gene.

> ○ GDF15: T cell inhibitor

> ○ GFAP: Expression in brain white matter. Gliosis marker 

> ○ GLI2

>> ○ A major Hedgehog pathway regulator.

>> ○ It is expressed in fibroblasts.

>> ○ It forms niche-supportive hormone-responsive signaling via enhancing production of growth factors IGF, WNT, FGF, and HGF.

> ○ GLS: Can metabolize glutamine to glutamate 

> ○ GLUL

>> ○ Central lobule marker in liver

>> ○ Catalyzes the metabolism of glutamate to glutamine 

> ○ Gm42418

>> ○ Expressed a lot at a necrotic region in solid tumor

> ○ GPR15: T cell trafficking

> ○ GZMA (granzyme A): Constitutes CYT(cytolytic activity score)

> ○ GZMK: Associated with immune system dysfunction in inflammatory response

> ○ HAVCR2: Encodes an immune checkpoint receptor, TIM-3

> ○ [HBB](https://nate9389.tistory.com/2209#:~:text=%E2%91%A1-,HBB,-(hemoglobin%20subunit%20beta) 

>> ○ Hemoglobin gene

>> ○ One of the most efficient mammalian mRNAs

>> ○ Actively utilized in mRNA translation and stability test

> ○ HCN1: Encodes a major pore forming subunit of HCN channels 

> ○ HLA: Related to human immunity

> ○ Icam1: Related to immune cell recruitment

> ○ IGFBP: Insulin response

> ○ IGFBP2: A biomarker of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis(IPF)

> ○ IGHA: IgA

> ○ IGHG: IgG

> ○ Il10ra: Related to immune cell recruitment

> ○ INSR: Insulin response

> ○ IRF7: canonical type 1 interferon marker. Promotes metastasis

> ○ Itgal: Related to immune cell recruitment

> ○ JAZF1

>> ○ Encodes juxtaposed with another zinc finger protein 1

>> ○ Involved in lipid metabolism, sugar metabolism, insulin sensitivity, etc

> ○ KLK3 

>> Encodes PSA(protate-specific antigen)

>> Found in serum unlike PSMA

> ○ KLRC2: T cell lectin 

> ○ LCN (lipocalin-1)

>> ○ There are 19 types of LCN-like genes in the human genome

>> ○ There are 45 LCN-like genes in the mouse genome

>> ○ It is found a lot in the necrotic region of solid tumor

> ○ Lmod3: Related to nemaline myopathy

> ○ Lrat: Encoding lecithin retinol acyltransferase

> ○ MALAT1 

>> ○ lncRNA MALAT1 is one of the most nucleus-enriched genes.

>> ○ It affects the regulatory function of T cells

> ○ Mif 

>> ○ A secreted ligand.

>> ○ It plays a pleiotropic role in immunity and inflammation modulation to aid in tumor immune evasion.

>> ○ It limits macrophage movement within tissue.

> ○ MKI67: Proliferation marker. Encodes Ki-67

> ○ Mmp3: Related to ECM decomposition

> ○ MMP7: Pulmonary fibrosis marker

> ○ MOBP: Expressed a lot in brain white matter. A marker gene for oligodendrocyte.

> ○ Msx1 

>> ○ [Homeobox](https://nate9389.tistory.com/1453#:~:text=6.-,%ED%98%B8%EB%A9%94%EC%98%A4%EC%9C%A0%EC%A0%84%EC%9E%90,-%E2%91%B4%20%EC%9A%A9%EC%96%B4%20%EC%84%A4%EB%AA%85) gene

>> ○ Encodoes transcription factors associated with WNT5A

> ○ Ncf4: Related to immune cell activation.

> ○ NDRG1: Associated with hypoxia.

> ○ NKX2-1: A mutation in this gene was observed in brain-lung-thyroid syndrome

> ○ NR4A1: A key mediator of T cell dysfunction

> ○ Nrxn2: Encodes Neurexin 2, a key gene in the vertebrate nervous system

> ○ NSF: Involved in the fusion of vesicles with cellular organelles.

> ○ ODC1: Catalyzes the first step of polyamine biosynthesis.

> ○ PCNA: Cell proliferation marker

> ○ PDCD1: Encodes an immune checkpoint receptor, PD-1

> ○ Pdgfra: It is essential for oligodendrocyte differentiation

> ○ PDPN: podoplanin 

> ○ PIK3AP1: Encodes a Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling adapter crucial for linking TLRs to phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) activation.

> ○ Plcg2: Related to immune cell activation

> ○ Plvap

>> ○ mediates microvascular permeability 

>> ○ required for the formation of caveolae and transendothelial channels 

>> ○ also increased in tumor vasculature

> ○ PRELP 

>> ○ Expressed in fibroblast 

>> ○ Encodes prolargin, an extracellular matrix protein

>> ○ Combined with Type I collagen and Type II collagen to the basal membrane

> ○ PRF1 (perforin-1): Constitutes CYT(cytolytic activity score)

> ○ PRSS23: A serine protease associated with proliferation of breast cancer cells

> ○ Psmb8: Related antigen presenting

> ○ RARRES2: T cell chemokine

> ○ Rbp1: Retinol binding protein

> ○ RORC: Encodes RORγt

> ○ RPL18: Activate protein translation by [mTOR](https://nate9389.tistory.com/1424#:~:text=%E2%91%B8%20%EC%A2%85%EB%A5%98%204.-,mTOR,-(mammalian%20target%20of)

> ○ S100A4, S100a4

>> ○ Related to innate immunity 

>> ○ Hypoxia-inducible gene promoted by HIF-1

>> ○ Related to cancer metastasis by promoting angiogenesis of tumor

> ○ S100A8 (MRP8)

>> ○ Consists of 93 amino acids

>> ○ Bind well to divalent cations such as calcium and zinc

>> ○ The name S100 is attached because it dissolves 100% in saturated ammonium sulfate

>> ○ Associated with intrinsic immunity: released from neutrophils, mononucleocytes, and macrophages

>> ○ 45% of neutrophil cytoplasmic protein

>> ○ Monocytes-derived cells continue to secrete S100A8 at low levels

>> ○ Helix-loop-helix structure

>> ○ S100A8 homodimer is unstable and exists as S100A8/S100A9 heterodimer

>> ○ Known as the inflammatory response marker gene

>> ○ Found a lot in the necrotic region of solid tumor

> ○ S100A9 (MRP14) 

>> ○ Consists of 113 amino acids

>> ○ Bind well to divalent cations such as calcium and zinc

>> ○ The name S100 is attached because it dissolves 100% in saturated ammonium sulfate

>> ○ Associated with intrinsic immunity: released from neutrophils, mononucleocytes, and macrophages

>> ○ 45% of neutrophil cytoplasmic protein

>> ○ Monocytes-derived cells continue to secrete S100A9 at low levels

>> ○ Helix-loop-helix structure

>> ○ Known as the inflammatory response marker gene

>> ○ Found a lot in the necrotic region of solid tumor

> ○ SDS: Portal lobular marker in liver

> ○ SELENBP1: selenium transporter

> ○ Sell: Related to innate immunity

> ○ Sema7a: Involved in differentiation and signaling within endothelial cells.

> ○ Serpini1: Axon growth 

> ○ Sfrp1: Wnt signaling modulator

> ○ Six6: A key gene involved in eye development

> ○ Slc1a2: Glutamate transporter

> ○ Slc17a6/7/8: glutamate neurotransmitter transporter 

> ○ Slc25a4: ion exchange

> ○ Slc32a1: GABA neurotransmitter transporter

> ○ SLC46A3

>> ○ A lysosomal transporter

>> ○ [Negative regulator for lipid-based nanoparticle uptake](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.abm5551) 

> ○ Smad6: Plays a crucial role in maintaining the barrier function of endothelial cells

> ○ Sox2: Involved in the development of nervous tissue and optic nerve formation

> ○ SPI1: A regulator of the NCF2 gene 

> ○ SPIC: Modulates myeloid-lineage genes

> ○ Spp1 

>> ○ Encoding osteopontin

>> ○ Pro-angiogenesis

> ○ SPRY1 : MAPK regulator 

> ○ SRRM2

>> ○ A component of spliceosomes

>> ○ SRRM2 protein is a key marker of nuclear speckles (NS).

>> ○ It organizes NS formation via liquid condensation.

> ○ Syt1: vesicle trafficking

> ○ TAGLN: Tumor suppressor

> ○ Tap1: Related to antigen presenting

> ○ Tap2: Related to antigen presenting

> ○ TBX5: a congenital heart disease gene

> ○ TCF7: a gene encoding TCF-1. Progenitor Tex cells

> ○ TEAD4: A transcription factor involved in the Hippo signalling pathway

> ○ TGFB2 (TGF-β2): Activates TGFβRⅢ, so it induces the expression of p38 MAPK resulting in dormancy

> ○ TGM1: differentiation marker transglutaminase 1 

> ○ THRA1/BTR: The only human gene name that contains a '/'

> ○ THY1 (Thy-1): Promotes the generation of antibodies

> ○ TIM-3

>> ○ The TIM-3 receptor has galectin-9 as its ligand.

>> ○ There are two types: a membrane-bound form and a soluble form.

> ○ TINCR: Epidermal terminal differentiation (protein-binding RNA)

> ○ TMBIM6: It plays a role in the progression of cancers through mTORC2 and AKT activation.

> ○ TOX: A gene encoding a crucial TF of T cell exhaustion

> ○ TRIM2: Relevant for regulating pulmonary fibrosis

> ○ TRIM8: An E3 ubiquitin ligase

> ○ TSC2: It encodes a negative regulator of mTOR

> ○ Tubb2b: Tubulin beta-2B chain

> ○ WNT5A, Wnt5a

>> ○ Encodes cytokine related to [Wnt signaling pathway](https://nate9389.tistory.com/1424#:~:text=%E2%91%B7-,Wnt%20signaling,-%3A%20Frizzled%20receptor)

>> ○ The mutation in this gene causes Robinow syndrome

<br>

---

<br>

*Input: 2022.06.02 20:52*
