## **Personal Statement** (personal history/diversity/background statement, PHS)

Recommended post **:** 【Study Abroad Admissions】 [Study Abroad Admissions and Scholarship Summary for the 2023-2024 Academic Year](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2194)

---

**1.** [Overview](#1-overview)

**2.** [Questions](#2-questions)

**3.** [Answers](#3-answers)

---

**a.** [My written personal statement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UbQYlvt7zWI)

---

<br>

## **1\. Overview**

 ⑴ Importance

> ① Particularly demanded by top schools

> ② There are cases where a low GPA was overcome by the PHS

> ③ However, as its weight is lower compared to other factors, it is strategic to prioritize completeness over perfection

 ⑵ Differences between PHS and SOP

> ① Since PHS contains private and specific content, the SOP tends to play the role of a personal statement

> ② While the SOP is a document that can be revealed publicly, the PHS deals with very private content known only to oneself

 ⑶ Length

> ① MIT **:** Not applicable

> ② Stanford **:** Within 500 characters

> ③ Harvard **:** Not applicable. Can be included in Additional Material

> ④ Caltech: Not applicable

> ⑤ Yale **:** Not applicable. Can be included in Personal Narrative, Additional Material

> ⑥ Cornell **:** Within 1500 characters

> ⑦ Johns Hopkins **:** Within 1 page

> ⑧ Berkeley **:** [1-2 pages](https://ccb.berkeley.edu/academics/phd-in-computational-biology/#application-tips:~:text=Personal%20Statement%20%5B-,1%2D2%20pages,-%5D\)%20as%20a%20header)

> ⑨ Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory **:** Not applicable

> ⑩ Scripps Research Institute **:** Within 2 pages

> ⑪ Rockefeller University **:** Within 250 characters

<br>

<br>

## **2\. Questions**

 ⑴ **Example 1**

> ① What from your past made you decide to go into this field?

> ② How will your personal history help you succeed in this program and your
future goals?

 ⑵ **Example 2.** Johns Hopkins University

> ① Please describe your academic and scientific background and how XDBio fits
your research and career interests.

> ② Please describe at least one project in detail and include what future
directions the project could take.

 ⑶ **Example 3.** UC Berkeley

> ① How you have overcome barriers to access higher education.

> ② How you have come to understand the barriers faced by others.

> ③ Your academic service to advance equitable access to higher education for
women, racial minorities and individuals from other groups that have been
historically underrepresented in higher education.

> ④ Your research focusing on underserved populations or related issues of
inequality.

> ⑤ Your leadership among such groups.

 ⑷ **Example 4.** Rockefeller University

> ① Describe how your background and experiences would contribute to the diversity of the Rockefeller community and/or how you might work with us on achieving a more diverse, equitable and inclusive university. The Rockefeller University’s mission, “Science for the benefit of humanity”, is central to our university culture and community. In keeping with this mission, we seek a student body that embodies the wide range of human experience. We believe that scientific discovery best advances when people from diverse backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives come together in a supportive environment. (Limited to 250 words)

⑸ **Example 5.** UCLA 

> ① Are there educational, personal, cultural, economic, or social experiences, not described in your Statement of Purpose, that have shaped your academic journey? If so, how? Have any of these experiences provided unique perspective(s) that you would contribute to your program, field or profession?

> ② Describe challenge(s) or barriers that you have faced in your pursuit of higher education. What motivated you to persist, and how did you overcome them? What is the evidence of your persistence, progress or success?

> ③ How have your life experiences and educational background informed your understanding of the barriers facing groups that are underrepresented in higher education?

> ④ How have you been actively engaged (e.g., through participation, employment, service, teaching or other activities) in programs or activities focused on increasing participation by groups that have been historically underrepresented in higher education?

> ⑤ How do you intend to engage in scholarly discourse, research, teaching, creative efforts, and/or community engagement during your graduate program that have the potential to advance diversity and equal opportunity in higher education?

> ⑥ How do you see yourself contributing to diversity in your profession after you earn your advanced degree at UCLA?

<br>

<br>

## **3\. Answers**

 ⑴ Overview

> ① You should mention how your disadvantages or unique background can contribute to the university

> ② It's preferred to use a research challenge rather than a personal challenge.

 ⑵ **Example 1.** racial minority **:** Note that Asians are not considered minorities. Blacks qualify as minorities

 ⑶ **Example 2.** gender minority **:** You may mention being a woman, but it is generally not applicable to South Korea

 ⑷ **Example 3.** Academic issues (Examples: decreased academic efficiency due to family's financial problems, social unrest, severe depression)

 ⑸ **Example 4.** Economic issues (Examples: business failure, disasters, family environment)

 ⑹ **Example 5.** Physical characteristics (Examples: health, disability, dietary habits)

 ⑺ **Example 6.** Special experiences (Examples: military service, volunteer work, clubs, hobbies, heartbreak, decreased academic efficiency due to COVID-19)

 ⑻ **Example 7.** Not only can you write about your own story, but you can also write about the subjects of your research

<br>

---

_Input **:** 2022.10.01 23:34_
