## Interview

Recommendation: 【Studying Abroad】 [2023-2024 Study Abroad Entrance Examination and Scholarship Arrangement](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2194) 

---

**1.** [Overview](#1-overview) 

**2.** [Pre-application contact meeting](#2-pre-application-contact-meeting)

**3.** [Online Interview, virtual meeting](#3-online-interview-virtual-meeting)

**4.** [Visiting before admission: On-campus interview](#4-visiting-before-admission-on-campus-interview-in-person-interview)

**5.** [Visiting after admission](#5-visiting-after-admission)

---

<br>

## 1. Overview

⑴ Importance

> ① In the field of life science, most of the interviews are conducted: 98% (in this case, document dropout rate ↑) or 50%

> ② In the field of engineering, interviewed would be done to evaluate students between success and failure.

> ③ Even in the field of engineering that does not conduct many pre-interviews, post-interviews are conducted to determine professors after the admission.

⑵ Questions

> ① Introduction 

>> ○ Introducing a light concern. 

>> ○ It's better to link it to the reason why you applied.

> ② How is your background?

>> ○ Departments related to BI and CS often inquire a lot about your background: they prioritize what you have studied over research experience.

> ③ What kind of research have you done? 

>> ○ It's advantageous to prepare 3-4 PowerPoint slides. 

>> ○ You may need to summarize the study for 1 to 3 minutes.

> ④ Who is the professor you want to work with?

> ⑤ Why do you want to do PhD?

> ⑥ Why did you choose this school?

> ⑦ What are you interested in?

> ⑧ Others

>> ○ If you can't hear English well, you can ask that question.

>> ○ It's better to be specific than asking for a question again.

⑶ Notes 

> ① Informal conversations are advantageous.

> ② Avoid memorizing scripts.

> ③ Some professors only talk about their research.

> ④ Some professors only do free talk that is not related to research: It is exhausting to interview many applicants.

> ⑤ It's better to actively ask questions that you're curious about.

> ⑥ You may also ask the professor's recent research directions.

> ⑦ You have to think about reactions to the professor who talks a lot.

> ⑧ You can also use generative AI tools such as ChatGPT to create example interview questions and practice with them.

> ⑨ It is advisable to familiarize yourself with the pronunciation of the interviewer's (professor's) name in advance.

> ⑩ If you start off too heavily, the whole interview can feel heavy, so being good at small talk is important too.

> ⑪ Whether the applicant has an interview with other schools: It's normal to mention 1-2 schools of similar weight class.

 ⑷ Useful Websites

> ① <https://www.thegradcafe.com/>: After applying, you can check if anyone is interviewing.

> ② <https://climbtheladder.com/>: You can check the expected interview questions.

<br>

<br>

## 2. [Pre-application contact meeting](https://papago.naver.net/website?locale=ko&source=ko&target=en&url=https%3A%2F%2Fnate9389.tistory.com%2F/2252)

<br>

<br>

## 3. Online Interview, virtual meeting [Table of contents]

⑴ Interview Notification

> ① 2 weeks to 2 months after application, i.e., from mid-December to the end of January

> ② Mainly concentrated just before Christmas and the end of the year holidays (mid-December) and immediately after the holidays (January 3rd to 4th).

> ③ The results of document process of Top Schools come out late: In many times at the end of January. Harvard and Stanford provide interview offers by early February at the latest.

> ④ The master process results later than the Ph.D. process.

> ⑤ Interviews are usually conducted with about 5-6 people, and they typically include PIs mentioned in your SOP. 

⑵ The process is conducted through either an online interview or a pre-admission visit only.

⑶ Method

> ① Skype and zoom will be used in general.

> ② Video assay: Online interviews conducted especially to evaluate expertise in the CS field.

>> ○ Video interviews usually take place at the time of application.

>> ○ For example, you are given 3 questions and answer them for 3 minutes.

⑷ Reference

> ① [Lillian - AlphaGenesis](https://www.youtube.com/c/AlphaGenesis?app=desktop)

> ② [R3ciprocity Team](https://www.youtube.com/@R3ciprocityTeam)

> ③ [Navigating Academia](https://www.youtube.com/@NavigatingAcademia)

<br>

<br>

## 4. Visiting before admission**:** On-campus interview (in-person interview) 

⑴ Overview

> ① Definition: Inviting successful applicants to introduce the school while interviewing students. Also known as "visiting".

> ② Most schools offer accommodation and airfare.

> ③ 1 night 2 days ~ 2 nights 3 days.

> ④ Even during the fall admission cycle in 2022, it was conducted remotely due to COVID-19, and even if it was an on-campus, about 1.5 times more was invited.

> ⑤ In 2023 fall admission cycle, the on-campus is expected to expand, and this time the number of invitations is expected to increase.

> ⑥ Based on the fall admission in 2024, due to the COVID-19 situation, virtual meeting is mainly conducted instead of visiting before admission.

> ⑦ Most international students have virtual interviews, while domestic students have on-campus interviews.

> ⑧ Even if you are offered a non-face-to-face interview, you can request an on-campus interview.

> ⑨ From mid-January to early March

> ⑩ Interviews are usually conducted with about 5-6 people, and they typically include PIs mentioned in your SOP. However, you may also be asked to provide a list of interviewers separately.

> ⑪ The case of visiting before admission: [Scripps Research](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2192#2-scripps-research-skaggs-graduate-school), Georgia Tech Biomedical Engineering

> ⑫ [Pre-entry Checklist](https://nate9389.tistory.com/2193)

⑵ The process is conducted through either an online interview or a pre-admission visit only.

⑶ Format

> ① Talk to 4 to 8 people (average 6 people) for about 30 minutes on a one-on-one basis for each campus

> ② Research-related conversation: 10-15 minutes

> ③ Personal conversation: 10-15 minutes

> ④ Interviews are horizontal rather than vertical.

> ⑤ A freer western atmosphere: It's like talking while drinking wine while standing up.

> ⑥ It is better to ask a lot of questions to indirectly reveal your interest in the department.

> ⑦ Conducts a few personality interview.

⑷ It is polite to send an e-mail after the interview.

⑸ Acceptance rate: Generally, 2 to 3 times more students are invited for interviews

> ① 20~ 25%

> ② 30%

> ③ 50%

> ④ 98%

<br>

<br>

## 5. Visiting after admission 

⑴ Purpose

> ① Interviews will be conducted as a process of getting accepted and selecting professors.

> ② To promote the school by the admission coordinator, etc. so that potential successful applicants can apply to the school.

> ③ It's common to be asked to provide a list of interviewers separately.

⑵ Normally held from early to mid-March

⑶ Gather.town can also be used when COVID-19 was prevalent.

⑷ Partial travel expenses coverage: UCLA provides about $600, and Sloan provides about $1000.

⑸ Not all schools are conducting visiting after admission (_e.g._, University of Michigan)

<br>

---

_Input: October 1, 2022 23:34_
