## Docker Usage

Recommended Reading: 【Development Environment】 [Operating System Index](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1771)

---

**1.** [Overview](#1-overview)

**2.** [Commands](#2-commands)

**3.** [Miscellaneous](#3-miscellaneous)

---

<br>

## **1\. Overview**

 ⑴ Overview

> ① (Differentiating Concept) environment: A bundle where packages are stored

> ② docker: A container that not only stores packages but also instances that are the intermediate results of computations

> ③ [Official Manual](https://docs.docker.com/)

⑵ Input Files

> ① `Dockerfile`: A set of Docker commands

>> ○ Concept similar to source code. The file name must be 'Dockerfile'

>> ○ If using docker attach, must use SHELL commands

>> ○ `RUN`: Installs during the creation of the image

>> ○ `CMD`: Installs only once when the image is turned into a container (when the image is executed)

>> ○ `ENTRYPOINT`: Like running jupyter

> ② `build-image.sh`: A set of Linux commands

> ③ `docker-compose.yml`: Configuration environment variables

> ④ [`app.py`](https://nate9389.tistory.com/2347): Python executable file

> ⑤ `requirements.txt`: Required Python packages

⑶ Docker Creation Results

> ① image = blueprint

>> ○ A blueprint with all the necessary packages and libraries installed for the desired project or functionality, along with various settings and initial values

>> ○ Can be downloaded from <https://hub.docker.com/>

>> ○ Examples: `linux/amd64 python:3.9`, `linux/amd64 nvidia/cuda:11.2.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04`

> ② container = instance

>> ○ The instance that is actually run or deployed by the user on the host, based on the image

> ③ node or host

>> ○ The device or environment running Docker

<br>

<br>

## **2\. Commands**

○ Install Docker

> ○ **Step 1.** Install docker-ce

```python
# For Ubuntu
sudo apt update
sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
sudo apt update
sudo apt install docker-ce

# For CentOS
sudo yum install -y yum-utils device-mapper-persistent-data lvm2
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo
sudo yum install docker-ce

# For Fedora
sudo dnf -y install dnf-plugins-core
sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/fedora/docker-ce.repo
sudo dnf install docker-ce 
```

> ○ **Step 2.** Start docker

>> `sudo systemctl start docker`

> ○ **Step 3.** (`Optional`) Enable docker to start on boot

>> `sudo systemctl enable docker`

> ○ **Step 4.** Verify docker installation

>> `sudo docker --version`

> ○ **Step 5.** Run a container

<br>

```python
# run a test container
sudo docker run hello-world

# run my new container 'jb'
sudo docker run -dit --name jb ubuntu
```

<br>

> ○ **Step 6.** Pull an image: Followed by the repository URL and image tag

>> `sudo docker pull ubuntu:20.04`

> ○ **Step 7.** Run a container from the image

>> `sudo docker run -it --name my_container_name ubuntu:20.04 /bin/bash`

○ Docker Commands:

> ○ `docker images`: List Docker images.

> ○ `docker build`: Generates a Docker container.

> ○ `docker run`: Executes a Docker container.

> ○ `docker ps`: List Docker containers. When you run `docker ps -a`, you can also see stopped containers.

> ○ `docker attach Container_ID`: Enter a specific Docker container.

> ○ `docker exec Container_ID`: Passes commands to a running Docker container. Almost similar to `docker attach`.

> ○ `docker stats`: Check the resources allocated to each container.

> ○ `docker stop ID`: Stop a specific container.

> ○ `docker start ID`: Start a specific container.

> ○ `docker rm ID`: Remove a specific container.

> ○ `docker rmi ID`: Remove a specific Docker image. Containers that use the image must be removed first.

> ○ `docker cp <CONTAINER_ID>:<CONTAINER_PATH> <HOST_PATH>`: Copy files from inside the container to the host.

> ○ `docker cp <HOST_PATH> <CONTAINER_ID>:<CONTAINER_PATH>`: Copy files from the host to the container.

> ○ `docker load -i sk_grid.tar.gz`: Load docker image named `sk_grid.tar.gz`.

> ○ `docker run -it docker.synapse.org/syn29568296/sk_grid:latest`: Run the docker based on an image. 

○ Shortcuts:

> ○ `ctrl + c`: When a specific Docker container is active, pressing this key combination will stop that Docker container.

> ○ `ctrl + p + q`: When a specific Docker container is active, pressing this key combination will detach from the active Docker container.

<br>

<br>

## **3\. Miscellaneous**

 ⑴ [Docker Web GUI Management Tool](https://it-svr.com/docker-web-gui-portainer/)

<br>

---

_Input: 2023.06.03 01:28_
