## **Disease (Pathology) Library**

Recommended Reading: 【Bioinformatics】 [Bioinformatics Analysis Table of Contents](https://jb243.github.io/pages/836)

---

**1.** [Overview](#1-overview)

**2.** [Cancer Diseases](#2-cancer-diseases)

**3.** [Organ-Specific Functional Diseases](#3-organ-specific-functional-diseases)

**4.** [Immune System Diseases](#4-immune-system-diseases)

---

**a.**[Pharmacology](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2197)

**b.**[Compound Library](https://jb243.github.io/pages/842)

**c.** [Drug Class Library](https://jb243.github.io/pages/311)

---

<br>

## **1. Overview**

⑴ **Category 1.** Cancer Diseases

⑵ **Category 2.** Organ-Specific Functional Diseases

> ① **2-1.** [Respiratory Diseases](https://jb243.github.io/pages/85)

> ② **2-2.** Metabolic Diseases

>> ○ [Cardiovascular Diseases](https://jb243.github.io/pages/83)

>> ○ Intestinal Diseases

>> ○ Liver Diseases

>> ○ Diabetes

>> ○ [Kidney Diseases](https://jb243.github.io/pages/87)

> ③ **2-3.** Skin Diseases

>> ○ Liver Fibrosis

>> ○ Lung Fibrosis

>> ○ Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis

>> ○ Scleroderma

> ④ **2-4.** [Neurodegenerative Diseases](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1207)

>> ○ Brain Diseases

>> ○ Neurological Disorders

⑶ **Category 3.** [Immune System Diseases](https://jb243.github.io/pages/86)

> ① **3-1.** Infectious Diseases: Viral diseases, etc.

> ② **3-2.** Inflammatory Diseases

> ③ **3-3.** Autoimmune Diseases

> ④ **3-4.** Immune Evasion Diseases: AIDS, etc.

⑷ **Category 4.** Aging: Recent views consider aging as a disease.

<br>

<br>

## **2. Cancer Diseases**

○ BRCA (Breast Cancer)

> ○ Metastatic breast cancer (MBC) has a worse prognosis than TNBC and shows greater resistance to chemotherapy.

○ ccRCC (Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma)

> ○ Accounts for 70-80% of RCC (Renal Cell Carcinoma).

○ GBM (Glioblastoma)

> ○ Average survival is 12 ~ 18 months.

○ HNSCC (Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma)

> ○ 6th most common cancer globally: 838,860 cases annually.

> ○ ~50% 5-year survival rate.

○ Melanoma

> ○ (+) MAGEA3, HSPA8, NACA, HLA-G.

○ OSCC (Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma)

> ○ Most common head and neck cancer.

> ○ Accounts for over 90% of cancers originating in the oral mucosal epithelium.

○ RCC (Renal Cell Carcinoma)

> ○ [Good resource on RCC](https://www.onclive.com/view/adcs-and-radiotherapeutics-represent-novel-treatment-methods-in-rcc)

<br>

<br>

## **3. Organ-Specific Functional Diseases**

○ AD (Alzheimer's Disease)

> ○ (-) NEUROD6.

○ ALF (Acute Liver Failure): Mortality exceeds 50%.

○ ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis)

> ○ GGGGCC is a hexanucleotide STR motif found in C9orf72 that is associated with this disease.

○ CAD (Coronary Artery Disease)

> ○ The most prevalent heart disease: Accounts for one-third of deaths under the age of 35.

> ○ Treated with antithrombotics.

○ CRS (Caudal Regression Syndrome)  

> ○ Congenital malformations and agenesis of the kidneys, gastrointestinal tract, legs, and spinal cord  

> ○ Occurs in 1 out of 60,000 to 100,000 newborns  

> ○ Causes: Environmental factors, genetic factors, infants born to mothers with severe diabetes

○ DR (Diabetic Retinopathy)

> ○ As of 2021, 9.6 million Americans suffer from this condition, which affects **one in four** diabetes patients.  

> ○ A disease in which blood flow to the eyes is blocked due to high blood sugar.  

> ○ Symptoms: Hemorrhage, hard exudate, nerve damage

> ○ Diagnosis: An ophthalmologist examines the retina to make a diagnosis.

○ HF (Heart Failure)

> ○ Roughly 50% risk of mortality within 5 years.

○ Hercules Syndrome

> ○ Excessive skeletal muscle development due to myostatin deficiency. Visceral muscles are normal. Can strain ligaments, tendons, kidneys, etc.

> ○ Myostatin: Inhibits skeletal muscle development and growth. Involved in ligament and tendon formation and development.

○ Myocardial Infarction: Predicted by elevated ST segment on ECG.

○ MAFLD (Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Fatty Liver Disease)

> ○ Formerly known as NAFLD (Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease).

> ○ Affects about 25% of the adult population worldwide, 40% in the US.

> ○ Emerged as a new disease in the 1980s.

○ NASH: 20 ~ 30% of NAFLD progresses to NASH.

○ Ovarian cyst rupture

> ○ Severe bleeding caused by sexual intercourse is a major cause.

○ [Parkinson's disease](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1207)

> ○ Overview

>> ○ First recorded by a physician named James Parkinson in 1817

>> ○ Since 2020, over one million people in the United States have been suffering from Parkinson's disease: it causes an economic burden of $52 billion annually

> ○ Causes

>> ○ The basal ganglia and cerebellum are involved in gauging distances to objects: the basal ganglia are the motor centers

>> ○ Dopamine is produced in the substantia nigra of the midbrain → Dopamine neurons control movement

>> ○ Parkinson's disease results in impaired movement control due to damage to dopamine neurons

> ○ Symptoms: Typically manifest after age 50

>> ○ Tremor when at rest

>> ○ Rigidity in arms, legs, and body

>> ○ Bradykinesia (slowing of movement)

>> ○ Postural instability  

> ○ **Diagnosis 1.** MDS-UPDRS (Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale)

>> ○ Part I: Non-Motor Experiences of Daily Living (13 items)

>> ○ Part II: Motor Experiences of Daily Living (13 items)

>> ○ Part III: Motor Examination (33 items)

>> ○ Part IV: Motor Complications (6 items)

> ○ **Diagnosis 2.** H&Y (Hoehn and Yahr) Scale 

>> ○ Stage I: Unilateral involvement

>> ○ Stage II: Bilateral involvement, intact balance

>> ○ Stage III: Bilateral disease, postural instability

>> ○ Stage IV: Severe physical disability, but can still stand unassisted

>> ○ Stage V: Wheelchair-bound

> ○ Treatments

>> ○ Dopamine: L-Dopa can cross the BBB, but D-Dopa cannot

>> ○ Levodopa preparations: Supplement dopamine

>> ○ COMT inhibitors: Maximize dopamine utilization or increase efficiency

>> ○ Requip, Mirapex: Supply alternative dopaminergic substances

>> ○ Neuroprotective treatments like Umax, Tocopherol: Protect damaged dopamine neurons

>> ○ MAO-B inhibitors: Delay the shutdown of dopamine production

>> ○ Amantadine: Increases the remaining production capacity of dopamine

>> ○ Dopamine receptor agonists

>> ○ Dopamine-degrading enzyme inhibitors

○ Psoriasis 

> ○ Chronic, inflammatory skin disease 

> ○ Epidemiology: 0.2 to 2.5%. >100 million people with psoriasis worldwide. >4M Americans.

> ○ Economic burden: > $11 billion

> ○ Heritability: ~66% 

○ Pulmonary Fibrosis: 3-year survival rate is only 50%.

○ Rett's Syndrome: Related to methylated cytosine.

<br>

<br>

## **4. Immune System Diseases**

○ HBV and HCV: Symptoms of HBV and HCV are similar.

> ○ Jaundice

> ○ Joint and muscle aches

> ○ Loss of appetite

> ○ Vomiting

> ○ Dark urine

○ HIV

> ○ Night sweats

> ○ Profound fatigue

> ○ Dry cough

> ○ Rapid weight loss

> ○ Rash

<br>

---

_Input: 2023.10.10 14:46_
