## **Chapter 3-3. Regulation of Enzyme's Allosteric Stereoselectivity (allosteric regulation)**

Higher category **:** 【Biology】 Chapter 3. [Cell and Metabolism](https://jb243.github.io/pages/69)

---

※ The text summarized here is an excerpt specifically extracted from the "Chapter 3. Cell and Metabolism" on allosteric regulation.

<br>

#### **A. Regulatory Molecules**

> ⑴ Regulatory molecules refer to small molecules that bind to proteins and change their spatial structure, thereby altering the protein's function.

> ⑵ Regulatory molecules are different from substrates.

> ⑶ Regulatory molecules include inhibitors and activators.

<br>

#### **B. Allosteric Regulation (Stereoselectivity at Different Sites)**

> ⑴ Allosteric regulation refers to the binding of an activator or inhibitor to a site other than the substrate-binding site of an enzyme, thereby activating or inhibiting the substrate's reaction.

> ⑵ The site other than the substrate-binding site is called the allosteric site.

> ⑶ Allosteric regulation can occur in enzymes that catalyze reversible reactions as well as in enzymes that catalyze irreversible reactions.

> ⑷ In cellular respiration, ATP acts as an inhibitor on enzymes involved in cellular respiration, while ADP acts as an activator, ensuring the appropriate level of cellular respiration.

<br>

#### **C. Application 1: Noncompetitive Inhibition**

> ⑴ Typical allosteric regulation does not completely block the reaction like noncompetitive inhibition.

> ⑵ When an inhibitor binds to an enzyme, causing allosteric regulation at a different site, it is called noncompetitive inhibition.

> ⑶ Competitive inhibitors bind to the active site where the substrate binds, not to a different site, so it is not allosteric regulation.

<br>

#### **D. Application 2: Feedback Inhibition**

> ⑴ Feedback inhibition refers to the mechanism where the final product inhibits the enzyme that acted in the early stages of a pathway, thereby regulating the metabolic pathway.

<br>
 
#### **E. Distinction: Cooperativity**

> ⑴ Cooperativity refers to the regulation of enzyme activity by the substrate itself instead of inhibitors or activators.

> ⑵ Positive cooperativity: Due to cooperativity, when one substrate molecule binds to the enzyme, it becomes easier for additional substrate molecules to bind.

> ⑶ Negative cooperativity: It exists but is extremely rare.

> ⑷ Hemoglobin is an example of cooperativity.

>> ① Hemoglobin consists of four subunits, each having one oxygen-binding site.

>> ② When one oxygen molecule binds to a binding site, the affinity for oxygen increases in the remaining binding sites.

>> ③ However, once an oxygen molecule starts to detach in one region, the others also detach.

---

<br>

*Input: 2013.04.30 20:54*

*Modified: 2023.06.24 20:33*
