## **Python Key Troubleshooting [81-100]**

Recommended Article: 【Python】  [Python Index](https://jb243.github.io/pages/786)

___

<br>

#### **81\. AnnDataReadError: Above error raised while reading key '/layers' of type <class 'h5py._hl.group.Group'> from /.**

⑴ (**package**) Issue: Issue occurs when running scanpy.read_h5ad

⑵ (**package**) Solution: Upgrade anndata version from 0.7.8 to 0.9.2 ([ref](https://github.com/scverse/scanpy/issues/2297))

<br>

<br>

#### **82\. KeyError: 'y'**

⑴ ( ** **grammar**** ) Issue: Issue occurs when executing `sc.pl.violin(adata, keys=celltype, groupby='annotation')`

⑵ ( ** **grammar**** ) Cause: `adata.obs[celltype]` contains NaN values

<br>

<br>

#### **83\. Korean fonts not visible on the plot, displaying as 'ㅁㅁㅁ'**

⑴ ( ** **grammar**** ) Solution

> ① **Method 1.** Search for available fonts on the system, set a Korean-supported font as default

> ② **Method 2.** Available fonts can also be found using the following code

> ③ **Method 3.** Download the .ttf font file and set the path of this font file as the default font

<br>

<br>

#### **84\. ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'jax.experimental.global_device_array'**

⑴ (**package**) Cause: GlobalDeviceArray was deprecated in [JAX version 0.4.1](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog.html#jax-0-4-1-dec-13-2022) and removed in [JAX version 0.4.7](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog.html#jax-0-4-7-march-27-2023)

<br>

<br>

#### **85\. OSError: cannot write mode I;16 as JPEG**

⑴ (**grammar**) Issue: Error occurs when executing `Image.open("input_image.tif").save('output_image.jpg', 'JPEG')`

⑵ (**grammar**) Solution: `Image.open("input_image.tif").save('output_image.png', 'PNG')` works ([ref](https://github.com/thygate/stable-diffusion-webui-depthmap-script/issues/15))

<br>

<br>

#### **86\. AttributeError: module 'PIL.Image' has no attribute 'ANTIALIAS'**

⑴ (**grammar**) Issue: `img = img.resize((256, 256), Image.ANTIALIAS)`

⑵ (**grammar**) Solution: `img = img.resize((256, 256), Image.LANCZOS)`

<br>

<br>

#### 87. FileExistsError: [Errno 17] JVM DLL not found: Define/path/or/set/JAVA_HOME/variable/properly

⑴ (**package**) Solution

<br>
 
```python
sudo apt update
sudo apt install default-jdk
readlink -f $(which java)
export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-11-openjdk-amd64 
export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
```

<br>

<br>

#### 88. ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'faiss'

⑴  (**package**) Solution: `pip install faiss-cpu` and `pip install faiss-gpu`

<br>

<br>

#### 89. ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'PIL'

⑴ (**package**) Solution: `pip install Pillow`

<br>

<br>

#### 90. AttributeError: 'Series' object has no attribute 'iteritems'

⑴ (**package**) Solution: Change the Pandas package version to below `2.0.0`. ([ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/77636192/attributeerror-series-object-has-no-attribute-iteritems-in-simple-custom))

<br>

<br>

#### 91. SyntaxError: Missing parentheses in call to 'print'. Did you mean print('Macros:')? [end of output] note: This error originates from a subprocess, and is likely not a problem with pip. error: metadata-generation-failed × Encountered error while generating package metadata. ╰─> See above for output. note: This is an issue with the package mentioned above, not pip.

⑴ (**package**) Issue: `pip install multiprocessing`

⑵ (**package**) Solution: The multiprocessing package is used in Python 2.x, so trying to install the multiprocessing package in Python 3.x will result in an error.

<br>

<br>

#### 92. IndentationError: unindent does not match any outer indentation level

⑴ (**grammar**) Solution 1: Use spaces consistently ([ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/492387/indentationerror-unindent-does-not-match-any-outer-indentation-level-although))

⑵ (**grammar**) Solution 2: Errors often occur in newly added parts of the code. In such cases, copying a part of the existing code with the same indentation level and pasting it into the newly added code can resolve the issue.

<br>

<br>

#### 93. OpenBLAS warning: precompiled NUM_THREADS exceeded, adding auxiliary array for thread metadata. Segmentation fault (core dumped)

⑴ (**system**) Solution: Use the command `export OPENBLAS_NUM_THREADS=4` to limit the number of OpenBLAS threads system-wide.

<br>

<br>

#### 94. AttributeError: module 'pulp' has no attribute 'list_solvers'. Did you mean: 'listSolvers'?

⑴ (**package**) Solution: `pip install pulp==2.7`

<br>

<br>

#### 95. Preparing metadata (setup.py) ... error error: subprocess-exited-with-error ... error in pysam setup command: use_2to3 is invalid ... note: This error originates from a subprocess, and is likely not a problem with pip. error: metadata-generation-failed

⑴ (**package**) Issue: An error occurs when running pip install lapels.

⑵ (**package**) Solution: Downgrade the Python environment to version 3.5 or lower.

<br>

<br>

#### 96. easy_install: command not found

⑴ (**package**) Solution: `easy_install` no longer exists, it was replaced by `pip install`. ([ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8650459/how-to-get-setuptools-and-easy-install))

<br>

<br>

#### 97. 'str' object has no attribute 'decode'

⑴ (**grammar**) Solution: Simply drop the `.decode('utf-8')` part ([ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28583565/str-object-has-no-attribute-decode-python-3-error))

<br>

<br>

#### 98. ImportError: Unable to find a usable engine; tried using: 'pyarrow', 'fastparquet'.

⑴ (**package**) Solution: `pip install pyarrow`

<br>

<br>

#### 99. AttributeError: module 'numpy' has no attribute 'float'?

⑴ (**package**) Solution: Lower the numpy version. Downgrading numpy to version 1.20 on Python 3.7 resolves the issue.

<br>

----

_Written: 2024.06.07 15:03_

_Revised: 2024.09.06 18:53_
