## **Chapter 5. Momentum**

Recommended article **:** 【Physics】 [Physics Table of Contents](https://jb243.github.io/pages/725)

---

**1.** [Momentum](#1-momentum)

**2.** [Coefficient of Restitution](#2-coefficient-of-restitution)

**3.** [Collisions in a Plane](#3-collisions-in-a-plane)

---

<br>

## **1. Momentum**

 ⑴ A physical quantity represented by the product of mass and velocity (P)

 ⑵ The rate of change of momentum of a single particle is proportional to the net force acting on that particle and is in the same direction as the force.

> ① F = ΔP/Δt = d(mv) / dt = ma, which can be summarized as Newton's second law of motion, F = ma.

 ⑶ Impulse **:** The change in momentum ΔP = F·Δt

> ① A measure of the intensity of impact on an object when objects collide.

> ② I = F ·Δt

> ③ Area under the force-time graph represents impulse.

 ⑷ Law of Conservation of Momentum

> ① Definition **:** When no external forces act and two objects collide, the sum of the initial momenta is equal to the sum of the final momenta, and this sum remains constant.

> ② **Reason 1:** Newton's Third Law **:** Law of action and reaction.

>> ○ (Note) Newton's Third Law is also a reason for the conservation of momentum.

>> ○ (Note) In fact, the conservation of momentum and Newton's Third Law are necessary and sufficient conditions.

> ③ **Reason 2:** Noether's Theorem

>> ○ Content **:** For every symmetry in nature, there is a corresponding conserved quantity.

>> ○ The universe has linear symmetry in space.

>> ○ Momentum is considered the corresponding conserved quantity.

> ④ Application **:** The velocity of the center of mass of an object remains unchanged before and after a collision.

<br>

<br>

## **2. Coefficient of Restitution**

 ⑴ The ratio of the relative velocities of objects before and after a collision.

 ⑵ **Type 1:** Perfectly inelastic collision **:** e = 0. Momentum is conserved. Kinetic energy is not conserved ( **∵** converted into heat).

 ⑶ **Type 2:** Inelastic collision **:** 0 < e < 1. Momentum is conserved. Kinetic energy is not conserved ( **∵** converted into heat).

 ⑷ **Type 3:** Elastic collision or perfectly elastic collision **:** e = 1. Momentum is conserved. Kinetic energy is conserved.

<br>

<br>

## **3. Collisions in a Plane**

 ⑴ Principle **:** Momentum along the x-axis and y-axis is conserved before and after the collision.

 ⑵ Example

<br>

---

_Input **:** 2016.06.26 23:26_
