## **Optics Lecture 4. Quantum Optics Part 2**

Recommended Article **:** 【Physics】 [Physics Table of Contents](https://jb243.github.io/pages/725)

---

**1.** [Interference](#1-interference)

**2.** [Scattering](#2-scattering)

**3.** [Absorption](#3-absorption)

**4.** [Relaxation](#4-relaxation)

**5.** [Generation](#5-generation)

---

**a.** [Quantum Optics Part 1](https://jb243.github.io/pages/742)

---

<br>

## **1.** **Interference**

 ⑴ Overview

> ① Phenomenon in which photons are generally generated in a medium larger than the wavelength of light

> ② Constructive interference and destructive interference

 ⑵ **Type 1.** [Straightness of Light](https://jb243.github.io/pages/746) **:** A type of interference of light

 ⑶ **Type 2.** [Reflection of Light](https://jb243.github.io/pages/746) **:** A type of interference of light

 ⑷ **Type 3.** [Refraction of Light](https://jb243.github.io/pages/746) **:** A type of interference of light

 ⑸ **Type 4.** **Polarization of Light**

> ① Overview

>> ○ Definition **:** Light vibrating in only one direction

>> ○ (Note) Natural light vibrates in all directions perpendicular to the direction of propagation

>> ○ Polarization is important evidence that light exhibits wave characteristics

> ② **Application 1.** Malus's Law

> ③ **Application 2.** Brewster's Law

>> ○ Definition **:** Reflection and refraction rays become polarized when the angle between them is 90 degrees

> ④ **Application 3.** Birefringence

>> ○ Two refracted lights are called ordinary ray and extraordinary ray, respectively

>> ○ Ordinary ray and extraordinary ray are both polarized light

> ⑤ **Application 4.** Scattering

>> ○ Scattered light consists of two types of polarized light vibrating perpendicular to each other

<br>

<br>

## **2. Scattering** 

 ⑴ Overview

> ① Definition **:** Phenomenon where light deviates from its original direction and moves in a different direction when passing through a medium with particles smaller than the wavelength of light

> ② Can be understood as the collision between photons and particles

> ③ Scattered light consists of two types of polarized light vibrating perpendicular to each other

 ⑵ **Type 1.** Elastic Scattering

> ① Definition **:** Scattering without energy change. Incident wavelength and scattered wavelength are the same

> ② **1-1.** Rayleigh Scattering **:** When the wavelength is much larger than the particle size

>> ○ Intensity of scattering, wavelength λ for Rayleigh scattering can be expressed as follows

>> ○ Short atmospheric layer (daytime)

>>> ○ Red, yellow, and orange light are mostly transmitted

>>> ○ Violet light scatters a lot and does not reach the eyes

>>> ○ Blue light scatters moderately, giving the sky a blue color

>> ○ Thick atmospheric layer (evening)

>>> ○ Must pass through about 40 times the thickness of the daytime atmosphere

>>> ○ Only long-wavelength red, orange, and yellow light reaches the eyes

>>> ○ Blue and violet light scatter a lot and do not reach the eyes

>> ○ Outer space **:** Appears black because there are no gas particles to scatter

>> ○ Sunset on Mars **:** Blue sunset is observed due to the sparse gas

 **Figure 1.** Sunset on Mars1]

> ③ **1-2.** Mie Scattering

>> ○ Scattering when the wavelength is similar to the particle size

>> ○ Scatters all wavelength ranges, resulting in white scattered light

> ④ **1-3.** Tyndall Phenomenon

>> ○ Definition **:** The path of incident light is visible due to the particles in the colloid

>> ○ Similar to Rayleigh scattering but different conditions and paths of scattering

>> ○ There is currently no mathematical formula that precisely describes Tyndall phenomenon

 ⑶ **Type 2.** Inelastic Scattering

> ① Definition **:** Scattering with energy change. Incident wavelength and scattered wavelength are different

> ② **2-1.** Raman Scattering

>> ○ Represented by Raman shift depending on how much it shifted from Rayleigh scattering

>>> ○ Cannot directly measure vibrational energy, similar to infrared spectroscopy

>>> ○ Raman shift is measured in cm-1

>> ○ Quantum mechanical understanding **:** Energy difference before and after Raman scattering corresponds to molecular vibrational energy

>>> ○ Called Stokes scattering when the material gains energy

>>> ○ Called anti-Stokes scattering when the material loses energy

>>> ○ Since there are more molecules in the ground state than in the vibrational excited state, Stokes scattering is more common than anti-Stokes scattering

>> ○ Application **:** [Raman Spectroscopy](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1404)

> ③ **2-2.** [Compton Scattering](https://jb243.github.io/pages/742)(Compton scattering)

> ④ **2-3.** Bragg Scattering

> ⑤ **2-4.** Inelastic X-ray Scattering

<br>

<br>

## **3. Absorption**

 ⑴ Definition **:** The phenomenon in which light is absorbed and disappears in a material

 ⑵ Type 1. Absorption according to the type of material **:** [Spectroscopy](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1404)

 ⑶ Type 2. Absorption according to the concentration of the material **:** Lambert-Beer's Law

> ① I **:** Intensity of light

> ② d **:** Length of the path that light penetrates

> ③ a **:** Absorption coefficient depending on the medium

> ④ T **:** Transmittance

> ⑤ A **:** Absorbance (unit **:** OD(optical density))

> ⑥ c **:** Molar concentration

> ⑦ ε **:** Molar absorptivity coefficient

 ⑷ Color

> ① Definition **:** The characteristic of selectively absorbing visible light by a substance, resulting in different visual perceptions

> ② [Color Optics](https://jb243.github.io/pages/1930)

<br>

<br>

## **4. Relaxation**

⑴ **Definition:** The conversion of light energy into other forms of energy.

⑵ **Type 1.** Photothermal Effect:

> ① **Definition:** The absorbed energy is emitted as heat energy.

>> ○ Molecules in an electric field of electromagnetic waves undergo polarization, rotation, vibration, and friction, generating heat (temperature increase).

> ② Used for food heating in the range of 13.56 to 24.125 GHz.

>> ○ Mainly 2.45 GHz is used.

>> ○ Depending on the wavelength used, it can be categorized as microwave heating and radiofrequency heating.

> ③ Heat energy generated per unit volume of genome.

>> ○ f **:** Frequency (Hz)

>> ○ E **:** Electric field magnitude

>> ○ ε" = ε tan δ, tan δ **:** Probably the loss coefficient (could be something else)

> ④ Applications: Heating of food, enhancement of seed germination rate, drying, pest eradication.

⑶ **Type 2.** Fluorescence:

> ① **Definition:** Absorbed energy is emitted as light energy.

> ② Resonance Fluorescence: The emission of radiation with the same frequency as the absorbed radiation.

> ③ FRAP and FLIP experiments:

>> ○ FRAP experiment: Used to evaluate the recovery of bleached fluorescent membrane proteins.

>> ○ FLIP experiment: Used to evaluate the mobility of fluorescent membrane proteins.

⑷ **Type 3.** Photoelectric Effect:

> ① **Definition:** Light energy releases photoelectrons.

> ② Principle of X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS).

<br>

<br>

## **5\. Generation**

⑴ Black Body Radiation:

> ① **Definition:** Phenomenon where all objects with energy emit light.

> ② Blackbody: An object that absorbs all incident energy and emits all absorbed energy.

> ③ **Number of modes of vibration:**

>> ○ Based on [Standing Wave](https://jb243.github.io/pages/740) at nodes.

>> ○ 1D Standing Wave: With a length L, different normal modes of vibration exist depending on the natural number n.

>> ○ 3D Standing Wave: Different waves (light) exist according to the state vector (l, m, n) of the wave modes.

>> ○ Number of modes: If there are N*(p) grid points within 1/8 of a sphere with radius p from the origin,

>> ○ Relationship between the number of modes (N*) and frequency (ν).

>> ○ The formula does not consider two waves with the same state number but opposite phases.

>> ○ Conclusion: Volume V = L3, Number of modes N = N* / V.

⑴ **Rayleigh-Jeans Law:**

>> ○ Overview: For the analysis of black body radiation, UV catastrophe should be observed.

>> ○ Average vibrational energy per unit volume for a given frequency ν.

>> ○ **UV Catastrophe:** Black bodies radiate infinite energy for wavelengths approaching zero.

>> ○ In reality, near-zero wavelength light converges to zero intensity.

> ⑤ **Planck's Law:**

>> ○ Max Planck introduced quantization, successfully explaining the energy of a single photon.

>> ○ Energy of a single photon.

>> ○ Probability of having n photons with frequency ν.

>> ○ Average energy of the system.

>> ○ Average radiated energy per unit volume at frequency ν.

>> ○ Planck's curve: Distribution of emitted energy according to wavelength, dependent solely on temperature.

**Figure 2:** Planck's curve.

> ⑥ **Stefan-Boltzmann Law:** The energy radiated per unit area per unit time by a black body is proportional to the fourth power of the body's absolute temperature T(K).

>> ○ For real objects, the formula is sometimes multiplied by the reflectivity ε.

>> ○ Here, σ **:** Stefan-Boltzmann constant, 8.22 × 10^-11.

> ⑦ **Wien's Displacement Law:** The wavelength λmax (μm) at which maximum radiant energy is emitted is inversely proportional to the absolute temperature T(K) of the black body.

>> ○ Here, α **:** Wien's constant, 2.89 × 10^3.

> ⑧ **Pauli Exclusion Principle:**

>> ○ **Definition:** No two electrons in an atom can have the same set of quantum numbers.

>> ○ Why Planck's curve appears as a continuous graph.

>> ○ As atoms accumulate, energy levels overlap, creating a continuous appearance of energy levels.

**Figure 3:** Energy level splitting due to orbital overlap.

**Figure 4:** Formation of energy bands due to orbital overlap.

⑵ [Light Emitting Diodes](https://jb243.github.io/pages/754#:~:text=%E2%91%B5-,%EC%A2%85%EB%A5%98,-2.%20%EB%B0%9C%EA%B4%91)

⑶ [Laser](https://jb243.github.io/pages/754#:~:text=%E2%91%B6-,%EC%A2%85%EB%A5%98,-3.%20%EB%A0%88%EC%9D%B4%EC%A0%80)

⑷ [Particle Acceleration](https://jb243.github.io/pages/754#:~:text=%E2%91%B7-,%EC%A2%85%EB%A5%98,-4.%20%ED%95%98%EC%A0%84)

⑸ [Fluorescence](https://jb243.github.io/pages/754#:~:text=%E2%91%B7-,%EC%A2%85%EB%A5%98,-4.%20%ED%98%95%EA%B4%91)

⑹ [Cherenkov Radiation](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2130#A1)

⑺ [Bremsstrahlung](https://jb243.github.io/pages/2130#A2)

⑻ [Fluorescence by High Z Metals](https://jb243.github.io/pages/754#:~:text=%E2%91%BA-,%EC%A2%85%EB%A5%98,-7.%20high)

⑼ [Surface Plasmon Resonance](https://jb243.github.io/pages/754)

<br>

---

_Input **:** 2020.03.30 18:06_
