## **Lesson 15: Polyphase Alternating Current**

Recommended Post **:** 【Circuit Theory】 [Circuit Theory Table of Contents](https://jb243.github.io/pages/852)

---

**1.** [Overview](#1-overview)

**2.** [Voltage and Current of Balanced Three-Phase Power Circuits](#2-voltage-and-current-of-balanced-three-phase-power-circuits)

**3.** [Y-Δ Connection of Loads](#3-y-connection-of-loads)

**4.** [Power in Three-Phase Circuits](#4-power-in-three-phase-circuits)

**5.** [Symmetrical n-Phase Circuits](#5-symmetrical-n-phase-circuits)

**6.** [Three-Phase V-Connection](#6-three-phase-v-connection)

**7.** [Symmetrical Coordinates](#7-symmetrical-coordinates)

---

<br>

## **1\. Overview**

 ⑴ Polyphase AC System

> ① Several mechanical powers with the same frequency but different phases coexist in the same circuit

> ② **Advantage 1:** High efficiency of generation

> ③ **Advantage 2:** Generation and transmission of high voltage

> ④ **Advantage 3:** Generated power remains constant regardless of time

> ⑤ **Advantage 4:** Low risk of failure

 ⑵ Symmetrical Polyphase System

> ① When n polyphase powers have the same magnitude and phase differences between them are equal

> ② Antonym **:** Asymmetrical Polyphase System

 ⑶ Balanced Polyphase System

> ① When the sum of instantaneous powers of each phase is constant

> ② Unbalanced Polyphase System

 ⑷ 3-Phase Generator **:** A generator with three windings spaced 120° apart on the rotor

**Figure. 1.** Configuration of a 3-Phase Generator 

<br>

<br>

## **2\. Voltage and Current of Balanced Three-Phase Power Circuits**

 ⑴ Voltage and Current in Y Power Circuits

 ⑵ Voltage and Current in Δ Power Circuits

<br>

<br>

##**3\. Y-Δ Connection of Loads**

 ⑴ Let's denote the resistances close to terminals a, b, c in a Y circuit as Ra, Rb, Rc, respectively.

 ⑵ Let's denote the resistances between terminals a-b, b-c, c-a in a Δ circuit as R1, R2, R3, respectively.
  
⑶ Total composite resistance between terminals a-b, b-c, c-a

 ⑷ Y → Δ Equivalence Transformation **:** Rarely used. Holds for **impedance** as well.

 ⑸ Δ → Y Equivalence Transformation **:** Frequently used. Holds for **impedance** as well.

<br>

<br>

## **4\. Power in Three-Phase Circuits**

<br>

<br>

## **5\. Symmetrical n-Phase Circuits**

 ⑴ Formation of Phasors

> ① Line voltage

> ② Line current = Phase current

> ③ Phase relationship **:** Line voltage leads phase current, and its magnitude is as follows.

 ⑵ Imaginary Configuration

> ① Line voltage = Imaginary voltage

> ② Line current

> ③ Phase relationship **:** Line current lags phase current, and its magnitude is as follows.

 ⑶ Rotating System

> ① Switching the phase sequence of any two coils in 3-phase AC changes the direction of the rotating system

> ② Rotating system's angular velocity is a constant angular velocity ω

> ③ Symmetrical n-phase AC forms a circular rotating system, asymmetrical n-phase AC forms an elliptical rotating system

> ④ Power supplied to a symmetrical balanced load in a balanced polyphase AC circuit remains constant regardless of time

 ⑷ n-Phase Power

> ① Formulation

> ② 3-voltage method

> **Figure. 2.** 3-voltage method 

> ③ 3-current method

> **Figure. 3.** 3-current method 

> ④ 2-power method **:** Method to measure the power of a 3-phase load using two power meters (* Note: Denotes complex conjugate)

> **Figure. 4.** 2-power method 

>> By drawing vector diagrams, the following facts can be observed

<br>

<br>

## **6\. Three-Phase V-Connection**

 ⑴ Voltage and Current in V-Connection

> ① In the case of a fault in one power source in a Δ-connected 3-phase power system, switching to a V-connection can supply 3-phase voltage to the load without any issue.

 ⑵ V-Connection, Y-Connection, Δ-Connection

> ① Y-Connection ○ Line voltage

>> ○ Line current

>> ○ Output

> ② Δ-Connection

>> ○ Line voltage

>> ○ Line current

>> ○ Output

> ③ V-Connection

>> ○ Line voltage

>> ○ Line current

>> ○ Output

 ⑶ Output Ratio

> ① Output ratio = V-Connection output ÷ 3-phase output = 1 ÷ √3

 ⑷ Utilization Factor

> ① Utilization factor = 3-phase output ÷ Equipment capacity = √3 / 2

> ② When changing from Δ-Connection to V-Connection, the output decrease is 1/ √3.

<br>

<br>

## **7\. Symmetrical Coordinate System**

 ⑴ Unbalanced Voltage

> ① Unbalanced voltage = Zero-sequence voltage + Positive-sequence voltage + Negative-sequence voltage

>> ○ Unbalance factor = Negative-sequence ÷ Positive-sequence × 100 (%)

> ② Zero-sequence **:** Components with the same magnitude and in-phase as a neutral component, exist on the central axis of the grounding line

> ③ Positive-sequence **:** Voltage with a phase difference of 120˚ between phases a, b, c

> ④ Negative-sequence **:** Voltage with a phase difference of 120˚ between phases a, c, b

> ⑤ Formulation **:** Using the principle of superposition, taking voltage as an example.

>> ○ Conversely,

 ⑵ Basic Equation for AC Generators

> ① Zero-sequence

> ② Positive-sequence

> ③ Negative-sequence

 ⑶ Interpretation of Intertwined Short Circuit **:** Using Symmetrical Coordinates

> ① Using Positive Impedance and Negative Impedance

<br>

---

_Input **:** 2016.01.20 18:55_

_Revised **:** 2018.01.06 12:49_
