## **National Cryptography Contest (Category II-A) Problem 05 (2016)**

Recommended post **:** 【Cryptography】 [Cryptography Table of Contents](https://jb243.github.io/pages/341)

**1.** Problem

**2.** Solution

**1.****Problem**

Investigator Mr. X received intelligence that terrorist suspect Mr. Y would obtain secret account information from a terrorist organization in order to raise funds to be used for terrorism,
and collected network packets generated at the PC room used by terrorist Mr. Y. The collected packets contain
information and secret orders that suspect Mr. Y secretly exchanged with other terrorists.
Find the secret account number from the collected packets!

**Problem A.** List the IP addresses presumed to belong to the terrorists.

**Problem B.** What orders and secret information did terrorist Mr. Y receive, and describe the process of finding them.

**Problem C.** Use the orders and secret information received by terrorist Mr. Y to find the secret account number, and describe the process.

**
2. Solution**

Before reading this solution, please refer to [Solution to Problem 06](http://nate9389.tistory.com/877).

First, in order to open the pcapng file, the well-known program Wireshark (ver. Wireshark-win64-2.0.4) was used.
While examining the pcapng file, communication between 202.30.24.92 and 220.30.0.11 stood out. This was because it contained very familiar information such as newsletters, Naver,
radiokorea.com, happylog.naver.com, and so on. From this, the conclusion obtained was that one of them
was an IP for Naver or another social medium, and the other was the user himself. However, compared to 220.30.0.11,
202.30.24.92 had far more communication records, so it could be determined that 202.30.24.92 was the IP of the PC used by suspect Mr. Y.

Meanwhile, if Mr. Y exchanged some message with another terrorist, then surely the length of that message would stand out somewhat,
considering that quite a lot of messages have the same length.
Since it is displayed in the info field as Len = ##number##, I searched by Len. After examining the communication records one by one in that way,
a very suspicious piece of information was found.

The above information was clearly information sent by suspect Mr. Y to another IP. But no matter how one thinks about it, the information "Please give me a private
key!" could not be information used for logging into some site or something like that, and it could only have been information sent to someone else through some mail.
Since the content of the message strongly smelled of terrorism, naturally the recipient 210.107.192.244 could be concluded to be the IP address of one of the terrorists.
Now it was necessary to examine the reply to the user's request asking for the private key. Then immediately afterward,
the replies arriving at 36.310788(Time) and 36.311548(Time) contained the RSA private key.

Now let us convert the private key to HEX and interpret it. Before that,
refer to [here](https://etherhack.co.uk/asymmetric/docs/rsa_key_breakdown.html). Meanwhile,
the character corresponding to 0x0a appears to separate the string into chunks of 64, except for the beginning and the end,
so it seems like an instruction to read it in segments.

30 82 04 A2 ; header

| 02 01 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x01 = 1 byte long

| 00 ; algorithm version: version zero

| 02 82 01 01 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x0101 = 257 bytes long

| | ; modulus: 257 bytes

| | 00 B2 EC FB 81 FF 28 0A A9 BC 49 82 E3 68 A5 26 C4 08 57 DF 7A B5 91 55 1A 7F 37 87 A9 2C 2D BB

| | 20 13 13 39 A5 A5 FF 3C 4D A4 69 64 A4 16 3B 68 B9 71 05 61 3B 82 A2 1A C4 D8 52 F3 9A C4 4B AA

| | 52 28 CE 58 BB E5 DA 04 5C 80 7D 55 CE 7F 4F 06 38 7E 9D 6B 96 B3 67 04 53 7F FE 16 6D A1 9B 97

| | C1 AE 70 05 9C D9 70 C4 2B BC 8F 31 00 6A 44 9A 32 6C 95 54 1F 27 E1 70 B1 2C A4 46 81 76 DA F6

| | F8 B2 46 12 BA F4 80 A9 A4 6D B6 B7 0E 26 88 40 58 C3 A1 93 FE EC EC 33 55 77 FA 82 EB 41 A4 B0

| | F4 E1 00 5C 04 9C 6D 70 CA 0F BE 9A C8 98 18 34 B7 A6 23 42 B4 8C 7F 4E E3 90 45 B8 38 E7 D0 B7

| | E9 96 83 95 2C FC F7 FC 39 39 BA 67 60 4E 2F D9 74 FB 2E 88 37 38 5F 14 B9 4E E1 03 0C 73 D1 9E

| | DB D5 F5 A3 63 9B BE 6D 69 79 C7 7B 59 FC FE 33 73 08 52 74 A4 99 48 9F 5B BF EE AD D7 6E 8C 0E

| | AF

| 02 03 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x03 = 3 bytes long

| | 01 00 01 ; public exponent (3 bytes): 65537(F4)

| 02 82 01 00 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x0100 = 256 bytes long

| | ; private exponent: 256 bytes

| | 02 73 A0 D6 9D 2A 6D 4A FA 1B 7F C1 A1 F3 71 5E 8A 46 B9 F7 32 79 B5 52 D1 9F 6F 2A 70 42 88 27

| | DE 5B 0B 15 2B FB 1D 56 6B 04 4E AE B8 E7 43 7E 17 00 5D DE B4 E1 87 C0 5E BE 74 3C 10 A8 80 C2

| | F3 70 30 63 12 B9 34 0A 18 70 9F 36 5F 24 34 0F 9E 1C 86 16 E0 8A 6E D2 BE 14 3B 36 71 5A 72 6F

| | E2 F6 01 FD AE 35 0F 5B 12 10 5C 39 87 3B 3D 69 A7 77 3C 59 D8 F0 0B DD 41 A1 56 9D FB 84 F0 91

| | 5D F2 72 62 1F CD 6D 5C 65 DF FF CF 7B A3 C6 D8 FF D0 60 28 34 00 0C 9C BC 5B 30 31 AB 24 46 56

| | 49 5E 3A E1 52 7F 11 21 6D 06 80 32 30 58 61 BA 7F 49 D0 63 62 68 A5 32 ED F3 74 D2 D3 B2 34 0F

| | F0 67 6E ED 2C 9F B2 5E 15 7E 3C 74 D6 C4 54 E5 65 6B D7 4D 3B A0 F0 7E FA FC 17 77 7C C2 E9 09

| | 02 E4 92 F5 33 73 27 83 5D 72 24 1D A5 13 CF 29 3E 67 3B 53 FB A3 9A AA DB 7F FA 14 7D BC 76 01

| 02 81 81 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x81 = 129 bytes

| | ; prime1: 129 bytes

| | 00 D7 B4 0A FF 26 40 20 E1 89 4B 38 13 D5 80 8D 79 A5 A3 96 FE C9 9F 4B 60 42 40 43 7F 53 0D B9

| | 33 5D 92 13 2E 16 A9 DB FE 10 CF 2C 19 B8 4E F3 35 07 0E 36 B7 55 89 40 19 E5 D3 1F B5 2C E2 11

| | 13 5B D8 FC B4 C6 A2 7A 28 A1 6E E0 2D 53 F6 EA BC 6E 27 55 2C 58 71 26 5B EA C6 C8 88 36 62 86

| | AF 4B EB 8D 08 AC 04 AB D0 06 05 0A FE 37 4E F5 BC C8 A8 8F F8 05 5F 80 88 18 4D 9B 27 0C 25 5E

| | 81

| 02 81 81 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x81 = 129 bytes

| | ; prime2: 129 bytes

| | 00 D4 5A 0F 8D 91 F1 85 63 E4 E0 77 B6 9F EC 31 39 95 55 3A FB 88 25 64 07 2D C4 5A 8B 7A DD 3E

| | DD 88 FC 2E BD 0B 11 CC 88 1A 52 DC 86 CF 16 C6 AD 17 DD D5 7B 8F E5 A2 94 50 40 C5 79 E3 B0 92

| | D7 3C 8E 47 55 8F 99 A4 E8 27 50 1A 90 22 5E A8 AB 58 CA 8E 88 0B 36 4E 2C 81 71 E7 64 D0 FD B0

| | FF 84 74 BF C1 72 C2 9A AE 46 49 B0 D8 DD C9 66 76 83 F2 61 31 25 FC FD 0E 55 49 F5 7A 45 9F 35

| | 2F

| 02 81 80 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x80 = 128 bytes

| | ; exponent1: 128 bytes

| | 22 6E 35 B7 26 86 E3 F8 BC 2E 8A 83 F7 F7 6E 1D B5 C7 D8 09 51 6B A0 DF 7B 93 C0 72 69 72 6E 56

| | 79 A0 20 79 A1 DA 79 28 23 CC BD F0 59 10 19 18 24 C9 2B 08 B6 99 92 E6 CF 5D 94 D9 19 91 F8 41

| | CB CE 66 00 01 18 DC 40 F2 0B BD B2 DE 8D 32 48 E3 98 59 AB 1B 6E EC 3D 8D CB 2F 25 36 F1 21 28

| | 88 08 D0 59 4B 03 EF DC E3 A9 18 69 1D B0 F7 DE AB 74 E4 8E 25 65 6A 21 CF 27 4C 15 BE 85 94 81

| 02 81 80 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x80 = 128 bytes

| | ; exponent2: 128 bytes

| | 65 02 69 FF 87 7A 81 5E E1 12 3D 1F AB B6 A8 3B A1 E3 26 E9 5A FB 9E 37 23 F8 10 B1 E4 41 B5 93

| | 9F 83 85 9F FA D1 FE 9E 87 16 FF 3B 48 EA A6 9A D3 8D 7B ED 08 A7 CC CC 0B D8 A3 96 B5 4D DA AB

| | 73 6C A2 55 FA B6 B5 10 91 12 B3 6F F8 49 5A A6 16 D8 53 30 37 55 1F 9E 5F FC 94 7B 0A 46 82 99

| | 28 A2 78 4C 46 90 77 0F 8A F3 A6 A1 A1 EE 19 45 2A C2 72 A4 F4 53 00 F4 7E 71 6D C9 39 B0 DF 95

| 02 81 80 ; separator: 0x02 = integer, 0x80 = 128 bytes

| | ; coefficient: 128 bytes

| | 69 F5 80 EE F4 22 C0 42 E1 1D 8A C5 87 FD 3B D2 0B 5A 46 13 57 17 03 3D 07 D5 CB 86 79 A5 83 9B

| | 11 01 FC 9B 2C C7 2A 91 10 76 D6 6D A6 2E C2 19 96 14 A6 5D CE 56 77 25 3A AF CE EB 4F FD 45 E8

| | 33 7B 23 B3 C0 4E B6 5B 45 D4 E5 36 2D 6E 63 79 15 D5 00 EF 2D 88 FC 99 0C 3C A0 7E FD 1A 50 52

| | 57 20 5B 2F 43 09 C2 B3 B2 E3 E5 6D 10 2A 3E 59 44 DC 7E 52 AE 72 44 67 57 3A 51 3D 5D 55 D0 1E

Now the question becomes which message should be decrypted with RSA. In order to find the message to decrypt, it is necessary
to clarify the meaning of the protocols a bit more clearly.

1. TCP (Transmission Control Protocol): high data reliability, data flow control, acknowledgment present

> Used in email, etc.

2. UDP (User Datagram Protocol): constant data communication speed, data errors present, no acknowledgment

> Used in streaming, etc.

3. SSL/TLS (Secure Secret Layer): Site Authentication, Data privacy, Data
   integrity

> Used in electronic commerce, etc.

**A rough process of SSL**]

There were also several other protocols besides these. Then which protocol should be examined to find orders from the other terrorists? First of all,
there are reasons why protocols other than the above three cannot each be the orders. (For reference, what is referred to as protocol here
means what is displayed in Wireshark; in reality, a protocol such as HTML also corresponds to TCP.)

a) ARP, BJNP, SSL, STP, VRRP: all are barely around 60 bytes, so there is almost no information.
b) BROWSER, CDP, DCERPC, NBNS, SNMP, SSDP: the information has patterns. It cannot be ciphertext.
c) DB-LSP-DISC, DHCP, DHCPv6, DTP, EPM, ICMPv6, IGMPv6, IPv6, LLMNR, PNRP,
SMB, SMB2, SRVLOC: there is no direct communication record with the user (202.30.24.92).
d) DNS: communicates only with 202.30.0.11. Social media.
e) HTTP/XML: clearly web-related protocols.
f) QUIC: communicates only with a specific IP (216.58.197.163). It is unlikely that they would stay in contact with only one specific IP for a long time.

Therefore, the terrorists' IPs must be one of TCP, TLSv1.2, or UDP. Then let us examine TLSv1.2 first. SSL/TLS first
begins with the client asking the server whether it has reached the correct server. After that, the server sends a certificate to the client,
and the client likewise sends a certificate to the server. Then the server sends the public key of the asymmetric key pair to the client. After
that, it encrypts the symmetric session key with the private key and sends it. Then the client decrypts the
session key with the public key so that the server and client share the same symmetric key.
Now the two encrypt messages with this symmetric key and exchange them. This is the identity of the "encrypted
handshake message."

After filtering the protocol as ssl and searching for the "client hello" message, the client was always 202.30.24.92.
Then this contradicts the earlier request for the RSA private key. This is because there is never a moment when the client
needs the RSA private key. In fact, after creating a pem file with the given RSA private key and having Wireshark decrypt with it,
the encrypted information within ssl was not decrypted. Therefore TLSv1.2 is not appropriate. (For reference, the following is the method for how Wireshark was made to decrypt
it.)

0. Download OpenSSL-Win64 and open the cmd window.
1. **cd C:\OpenSSL-Win64\bin**
2. **set RANDFILE=C:\OpenSSL-Win64\bin\.rnd** (process (2) may not be necessary)
3. **openssl.exe**
4. **genrsa -des3 -out MyKey.pem 2048** (as 2048 bits, same as the modulus of the given RSA key)
5. Enter and re-enter the passphrase
6. **rsa -in MyKey.pem -out MyKey2.pem** (remove the passphrase)
7. Enter the passphrase from 5)
8. **quit**
9. **ren MyKey.pem MyKey.txt**
10. Open MyKey.txt and appropriately copy the given RSA private key into it.
11. **ren MyKey.txt MyKey.pem**
12. **rsa -noout -text -in MyKey.pem** (if it succeeds, it was done correctly.)
13. Edit - Preferences... - Protocols - SSL - RSA keys list - Edit...
14. Enter the IP address, Post, Protocol (= ssl) appropriately, and insert the pem file into Key File

Since there were too many TCP packets, I looked for an appropriate candidate among UDP. The one that communicated directly with 202.30.24.92,
whose message information was meaningless, and which did not communicate too much with 202.30.24.92, had exactly one candidate. (Here the last condition
reflects the special condition of being a terrorist.)

There was communication with 124.56.121.71 exactly once, and in that process it could be seen that they exchanged PEM information with each other. Of course, PEM information
was also found in the HTTP protocol, but at that time it was information to reflect a resource. But this time it was displayed only as data,
and in UDP only this was displayed as PEM information. Therefore this information indicates something. Therefore 124.56.121.71 is also one of the terrorists'
IPs.

Now it is necessary to investigate TCP. Since there are a great many communication records for TCP, I first filtered for TCP and then
sorted by length in ascending order. And clearly since the modulus is 256 bytes, the communication record must be more than 256 bytes.
And the communication record with 202.30.24.92 should not be too numerous, and the actual tcp segment data should be similar
to 256 bytes. Finally, no recognizable information should remain. (e.g. www, http, com...) Using these criteria, if additional
IPs are sought, the following IPs can be suspected.

59.18.44.109
5.45.62.62
77.234.41.35

Due to time constraints, it did not proceed beyond this. In fact, the message size should be exactly 256 bytes, but none of them were.
So quite a lot of trial and error will be necessary, and there may have been a mistake in the earlier process of excluding TLSv1.2.
However, the information obtained from UDP must be valuable information connected to some account number,
and if some information to decrypt is found in TCP, then the following algorithm may be applied.

Input: 2016.08.17 10:29